“Piezo Pulse Power Generator for Armament Systems” 

Certain class of Ferroelectric materials when subjected to shock waves generates huge amount of 

pulsed  power  in  the  form  of  voltage  and  current  as  compared  to  commercially  available 

piezoceramics. Such ferroelectric materials-based pulsed power generating devices are known as 

ferroelectric  generators.  Ferroelectric  energy  generator  systems  are  source  for  generating  large 

amount of electrical energy in the form of pulse power which is required for many applications. In 

these  systems  the  electrical  pulse  is  generated  by  shock  wave  depolarization  of  ferroelectric 

material  using  explosive.  Ferroelectric  ceramics  are  an  integral  component  of  explosively  driven 

ferroelectric  pulse  power  generators  which  utilizes  the  energy  of  the  ferroelectric  ceramics  to 

initiate the explosive train. The ToT includes the method to manufacture the ferroelectric ceramic 

and fabricating a ferroelectric generator system out of that. 

1.  

Interested companies/industries are requested to apply against this EoI to following 

address:- 

To, 

The Director 

Armament Research & Development Establishment (ARDE), 

Dr. Homi Bhabha Road, Pashan, Pune-411021 

Email-director.arde@gov.in 

2. 

 A copy of interest may be sent to the following address without any attachment:- 

Copy to:-  

To, 

The Director 

Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM) 

Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110 011 

Email-diitm.hqr@gov.in 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
List of Support documents to be attached with EoI 

(a)   Memorandum  and  Articles  of  Association  (Should  be  incorporated  as  per  Indian 

Companies Act, as amended time to time) 

 (b)   Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any. 

 (c)   Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.  

(d)  

Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period  

(e)   Details of shareholding/ownership pattern especially foreign partners/ shareholders, foreign 
employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt of India policies 
and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable.  

(f)  

Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  

(g)   Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company. 

 (h)   Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel. 

 (i)   Record  of  past  performance  (e.g.,  Supply  orders  executed  against  of  Ministry  of  Defence 

orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).  

(j)  

Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their production capacities) and 
technical expertise.  

(k)  

List of Testing and Support equipment’s 

 (l)  

ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification  

(m)   Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any) 

(n)   Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept attendant financial 

and commercial risks.  

(o)   Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales and service 

network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 

(p)   PESO  and  DPIIT  license  for  explosive  handling  if  ToT  is  for  high  energy  Material, 

explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc.  

(q)   Under taking form company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, Independent Directors, 
non-executive Directors, Key management personnel are involved in any corrupt practices, 
unfair means and illegal activities. 

(r)  

Details  of  the  industrials  license  for  defence  manufacturing  be  provided  by  the  industry 
seeking ToTs. 

  
 
