Scaled-up-3 Nitro 1,2,4 Triazol 5-One (NTO) Process 

HEMRL, Pune has developed the technology NTO. NTO is a high energy material having applications 
in High Explosive formulations. It is one of the promising HE for insensitive munitions. Due to its high 
energy  with  low  vulnerability  high  thermal  stability,  good  self-binding  property,  NTO  can  be  used  in 
many  types  of  explosive  fillings:  melt-cast,  cast  cured  PBXs  and  presses  PBXs  formulations.  The 
development  of  IM  class  of  formulations  containing  NTO  as  a  potential  fill  in  admixture  with  TNT  is 
being  explored  world  –wide.  HEMRL  has established  a  cost effective,  viable  synthesis route for NTO 
technology using two-step processes. Process parametric conditions are optimized for desired particle 
size, and morphology. Technology to prepare the NTO is mature and meets the specification suitable 
for different applications. 

Contact Details 

1. 

Interested companies/industries are requested to apply against this EoI to following address:- 

To, 

Director 

High Energy Materials Research Laboratory (HEMRL) 

DRDO, Govt. of India, Ministry of Defence 

Sutarwadi, Pune-411 021 

Email-director.hemrl@gov.in 

2. 

 A copy of interest may be sent to the following address without any attachment:- 

Copy to (without attachment) 

The Director 

Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM) 

Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110 011 

Email-diitm.hqr@gov.in 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
List of Support documents to be attached with EoI 

(a)   Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian Companies Act, 

as amended time to time) 

 (b)   Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any. 

 (c)   Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.  

(d)  

Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period  

(e)   Details  of  shareholding/ownership  pattern  especially  foreign  partners/  shareholders,  foreign 
employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt of India policies and 
regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable.  

(f)  

Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  

(g)   Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company. 

 (h)   Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel. 

 (i)   Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of Defence orders, 

Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).  

(j)  

Availability  of  adequate  infrastructure  (List  of  machines  and  their  production  capacities)  and 
technical expertise.  

(k)  

List of Testing and Support equipment’s 

 (l)  

ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification  

(m)   Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any) 

(n)   Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept attendant financial and 

commercial risks.  

(o)   Capacity/capability  to  market  the  product  through  the  marketing  network,  sales  and  service 

network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 

(p)   PESO  and  DPIIT  license  for  explosive  handling  if  ToT  is  for  high  energy  Material,  explosives, 

propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc.  

(q)   Under taking form company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, Independent Directors, non-
executive  Directors,  Key  management  personnel  are  involved  in  any  corrupt  practices,  unfair 
means and illegal activities. 

(r)  

Details of the industrials license for defence manufacturing be provided by the industry seeking 
ToTs. 

 
 
  
 
