ELECTRONICS  AND  RADAR  DEVELOPMENT  ESTABLISHMENT  (LRDE) 

aa  wer  fare  eae 

aT 

aa  fara  aot 

DEFENCE  RESEARCH  AND  DEVELOPMENT  ORGANISATION 
ART  ACH,  CAT  WATT 
GOVERNMENT  OF  INDIA,  MINISTRY  OF  DEFENCE 
at  at  wat  wx,  aFTqe  -  560  093 
CV  RAMAN  NAGAR,  BENGALURU  -  560  093 

Advt.  No.:  LRDE/APP-TRG/2025-26/NAPS-1 
Advertisement  for  engaging  Technician  (Vocational)  Apprentice  Trainees 
for  the  FY  2025-26 
(Under  The  Apprentices  Act,  1961) 

The  Electronics  and  Radar  Development  Establishment  (LRDE),  Bengaluru  is  one  of 
the  premier  R&D  Establishments  set  up  under  the  Defence  R&D  Organization,  Ministry  of 
Defence,  Govt.  of 
India.  LRDE  invites  online  applications  from  eligible  candidates  for 
One  Year  Apprenticeship  Training  as  per  the  following  details  under  the  provisions  of 
The  Apprentices  Act,  1961,  as  amended  from  time  to  time: 

Essential 
Qualification 

Stipend 

per 

month 

&  7000/- 

Candidates 
who | 
have  passed  out  of  | Rupees  Seven 
valid  | Thousand  only 
with 
ITI 
certificate  issued  by 
National  Council  for 
Training 
Vocational 
the 
in 
(NCVT) 
respective  trade. 

Trade 

Vacancy 

Sr. 
No. 
1. 

|  Computer  Operator  & 

Programming  Assistant  (COPA)  / 
Data  Entry  Operator / Computer 
hardware  &  Network 
Maintenance  /  Software  Testing 
Assistant 
|  Electrician 
2. 
3. 
|  Electronics  Mechanic 
4.  _|  Draughtsman  Mechanical 
5.  _|  Fitter 
6._| 
7. 

Machinist  /  CNC  Machining  Tech 

|  Mechanic  Motor  Vehicle  / 

Mechanic  Diesel 

8. 
9. 

|  Turner 
|  Welder  /  Welder  (GMAW  & 

GTAW)  /  Welder  (Fabrication  & 
Fitting)  /  Welder  (Welding  & 
Inspection) 

11.  |  Photographer 
12.  |  Painter 

Total 

2.  Procedure  to  Apply: 

05 

04 
03 
02 
04 
03 
03 

02 
02 

01 
01 
30 

1) 
2) 

3) 

Please  read  the  terms  and  conditions  carefully  before  applying. 
Candidates  must  get  enrolled  in  https://Awww.apprenticeshipindia.gov.in  of  Govt.  of 
India. 
Candidates  need  to  apply  for  the  vacancies  of  LRDE  on  the  portal. 
Establishment  Code:  E05162900038 

3.  Selection  Process: 

Depending  upon  the  vacancies  available  in  various  trades,  selection  of  candidates  will 
be  carried  out  by  short  listing  on  the  basis  of  academic  merit  /  written  test  /  interview  as  may 
as  required,  subject-to:satisfactory  verification  of  the  documents. 

Page  1  of  3 

4.  Terms  and  Conditions: 
1) 

Only  online  applications  through  https://www.apprenticeshipindia.gov.in+will  be  accepted. 
Candidates  fulfilling  the  eligibility  criteria  may  apply  online  up  to  25  May  2025. 
Indian  Nationals  only  eligible  to  apply. 

2) 
3)  Minimum  age  of  the  candidate  should  be 

this 
advertisement.  Maximum  age  limit  will  be  applied  as  per  the  provisions  of  Govt.  of  India. 
Only  those  candidates  who  have  passed  qualifying  examination  in  the  year  2023  or  later 
can  apply.  Candidates  who  have  passed  the  qualifying  examination  before  2023  are  NOT 
eligible. 
Only  those  candidates  who  have  passed  qualifying  examination  as  regular  candidates  are 
eligible  to  apply. 

18  years  as 

date  of 

closing 

on 

‘ 

4) 

5) 

6)  Applications  of  those  candidates  who  have  appeared  in  the  qualifying  examination  but 
whose  results  have  not  been  declared/  available  as  on  closing  date  of  this  advertisement 
will  NOT  be  considered  for  training.  Provisional  Certificates  of  qualifying  examination 
would  however  be  acceptable  during  the  time  of  joining,  but  final  certificates  shall  have  to 
be  submitted  as  and  when  received  for  verification  and  acceptance. 

7)  Candidates  with  higher  qualification  are  NOT  eligible  to  apply. 
8)  Candidates  who  had  training  or  job  experience  for  a  period  of  one  year  or  more  after 

attaining  the  essential  qualification  are  NOT  eligible  to  apply. 

9)  Candidates  who  have  already  undergone  apprenticeship  training  or  at  present  undergoing 

apprenticeship  training  under  any  organisation  are  NOT  eligible. 

10)  Reservations  will  be  applied  as  per  the  provisions  of  The  Apprentices  Act,  1961,  as 
amended  from  time  to  time.  Applicants  belonging  to  SC  (Scheduled  Caste)  /  ST 
(Scheduled  Tribes) 
Non-  Creamy  Layer  / 
Economically  Weaker  Sections  (EWS)  and  Person  with  Disability  (PwBD)  shall  produce 
relevant  certificates  issued  by  the  Competent  Authority. 

/  OBC  (Other  Backward  Classes)  — 

11)  The  selected  candidates  have  to  get  their  character  &  antecedents  verified  before 
commencement  of  training.  Candidates  selected  will  have  to  produce  valid  police 
verification  certificate  at  the  time  of  joining  from  their  place  of  last  residence  (for  at  least 
past  one  year)  and  permanent  address. 

12)  The  selected  candidates  have  to  produce  the  “Certificate  of  Physical  Fitness”  as  per 
attached  format  issued  by  authorised  Medical  Officer  of  any  Government  Hospital.  Final 
selection  of  the  candidate  depends  upon  the  candidate’s  fulfilling  health  standards  as 
prescribed  in  Apprentices  Act,  1961,  as  amended  from  time  to  time. 

13)The  selected  candidates  should  be 

a  position  to  join  the  establishment  on  the 
prescribed  date  of  joining.  If  the  candidate  does  not  report  latest  by  scheduled  date,  it  is 
assumed  that  the  candidate  is  not  interested  in  the  apprenticeship  and  the  candidature 
may  be  forfeited  without  further  communication. 

in 

14)  The  selected  candidate  must  execute  a  contract  for  a  period  of  one  year  of  training  as  per 

the  provisions  of  The  Apprentices  Act,  1961  and  rules  framed  there  under. 

15)  The  period  of  training  will  be  one  year  commencing  from  the  date  of  execution  of  the 

contract  of  apprenticeship. 

16)  Candidates  before  filling  the  application  form  shall  ensure  that  they  fulfill  all  the  eligibility 
conditions  for  the  apprenticeship  training.  If 
at  any  stage  of  selection  or  even  after 
selection  and  joining  or  during  training,  it  comes  to  the  notice  that  the  candidate/  trainee 
does  not  fulfill  any  of  the  eligibility  conditions  or  the  facts  stated  are  not  true  or  the 
documents  enclosed  by  the  applicant  are  false/forged,  the  candidature  of  such  candidate 
shall  be  disqualified  /  cancelled  immediately. 

17)  Canvassing  /  influencing  in  any  form  shall  lead  to  disqualification  of  the  candidate. 
18)LRDE  reserves  the 

rights  to  increase  or  decrease  the  number  of  vacancies  for 
apprenticeship  training  and  to  withdraw  /  cancel  the  advertisement  /  selection  process  if 
circumstances  so  warrant  without  assigning  any  reason  thereof. 

Page  2  of  3 

19)  LRDE  reserves  the  right  to  adopt  its  own  method  of  short-listing  criteria  and  is  NOT 
obliged  to  shortlist  all  the  candidates  who  fulfil  the  minimum  requirement.  Mere  fulfilment 
of  requirements  as  laid  down  in  the  advertisement  does  not  qualify  a  candidate  to  be 
selected. 

20)  All  selected  candidates  are  required  to  bring  self-attested  copy  of  documents  mentioned 
its  original  certificates  along  with  the  printout  of  the  application  form  during 

below  & 
document  verification  /  joining:  - 

i. 
ii. 

10th  Mark  sheet  and  Certificate 
Mark  sheets  of  qualifying  examinations  for  all  semesters  /year  wise  as 
applicable  issued  by  NCVT 
Trade  Certificate  issued  by  NCVT 
iii. 
Caste  Certificate  (if  applicable) 
iv. 
v.  PWD  Certificate  (if  applicable) 
vi.  EWS  certificate  (if  applicable) 
vii. 

Photo  ID  card  issued  by  respective  State  Govt.  or  Govt.  of  India  (Preferably 
Aadhaar  Card) 

viii.  Two  recent  Passport  size  photographs 

Police  Verification  Certificate  (District  Authority) 
Certificate  of  Physical  Fitness  as  per  the  format  enclosed 

ix. 
x. 
xi.  Copy  of  Aadhaar  seeded  bank  A/c  passbook 

21)  The  candidates  will  NOT  be  provided  any  accommodation  /  transport  /  transport  allowance 

by  this  establishment  during  the  selection  or  training. 

22)  No  correspondence  shall  be  entertained  from  the  candidates  not  selected  for  training. 
23)  LRDE  reserves  the  rights  to  amend  /  suspend  /  cancel  the  selection  process  at  any  time 

during  the  process  without  assigning  any  reason. 

24)  It  shall  NOT  be  obligatory  on  the  part  of  LRDE,  where  training  shall  be  imparted,  to 
offer  any  employment  to  any  apprentice  on  completion  of  the  apprenticeship 
training. 

Director 
LRDE,  Bengaluru 

Page  3  of  3

