High Explosive filling PBHE-515 for Naval Missile Warhead

HEMRL developed indigenous high explosive filling for use in Naval Missile Warhead. The
technology includes refurbishing of the Missile Warhead with cast cure high explosive filling.
The warhead performance tests filled with developed explosive composition is sucessfully
completed   .   The   technology   for   the   explosive   system   of   the   missile   warhead   is   fully
developed and ready to be transferred to the interested industries for bulk production.

Unique selling Point (USP):

Developed technology met all performance parameters during evaluation trials and ready to
be transferred for production and is equivalent to global state of art. All the raw materials and
process equipment required for the preparation of explosive filling are available indigenously.

1.

Interested   Companies/industries   are   requested   to   apply   against   this   EoI   to   the
following address:-

To, 
The Director,
High Energy Materials Research  Laboratory (HEMRL)
Sutarwadi, Pune-411 021
Email- director.hemrl@gov.in

2. 

A copy of interest may be sent to the following address without any attachment:-

To, 
The Director, 
Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM)
Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110 011
Email-diitm.hqr@gov.in

List of Support documents to be attached with EoI:-

(a)  Memorandum   and  Articles   of  Association   (Should   be   incorporated   as   per   Indian  

Companies  Act, as amended time to time).

(b) 

Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.

(c) 

Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.

(d) 

Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period.

(e) 

Details of shareholding/ownership pattern especially foreign partners/shareholders,  
foreign employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt of 
India policies and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)/ DIPP norms  as
applicable.

(f) 

Annual budget for R&D during last three years.

(g) 

Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company.

(h) 

Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel.

(i) 

(j) 

Record   of   past   performance   (e.g.,   Supply   orders   executed   against   of   Ministry   of  
Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).

Availability   of   adequate   infrastructure   (List   of   machines   and   their   production  
capacities)  and 

technical expertise.

(k) 

List of Testing and Support equipments.

(l) 

ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification.

(m)  Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any).

(n) 

(o) 

(p) 

(q) 

Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept
attendant financial and commercial risks.

Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales  and  
service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality.

PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy  Material,
explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc.

Under   taking   form   company   seeking  ToT  that   none   of   its   Directors,   Independent  
Directors, non-executive Directors, Key management personnel are involved in any  
corrupt practices, unfair means and illegal activities.

(r) 

Details   of   the   industries   license   for   Defence   manufacturing   be   provided   by   the  
industry seeking ToTs.

 
