Manufacturing of BKNO3 Pellets of ME-445 Composition

Pyrotechnic Igniters are used for ignition of solid rocket propellants. Igniters provide the heat
flux to propellant surface for reliable ignition. Also, it provides certain minimum pressure in the
rocket motor chamber for sustained combustion. High heat output igniters compositions based
on B/KNO3    have been developed and the composition is used in No. of igniters for rocket
motors. Igniter compositions is prepared  by mixing fuel, oxidizer and binder in the planetary
mixer. After mixing, composition is granulated for easy loading and homogeneity. Granulated
composition is used for pelleting. Igniter’s compositions in the form of granules or pellets is
filled in the canister of aluminum alloy or steel and used as igniter.

1.

Interested   Companies/industries   are   requested   to   apply   against   this   EoI   to   the
following address:-

To, 
The Director,
High Energy Materials Research  Laboratory (HEMRL)
Sutarwadi, Pune-411 021
Email- director.hemrl@gov.in

2. 

A copy of interest may be sent to the following address without any attachment:-

To, 
The Director, 
Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM)
Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110 011
Email-diitm.hqr@gov.in

List of Support documents to be attached with EoI:-

(a)  Memorandum   and   Articles   of   Association   (Should   be   incorporated   as   per   Indian  

Companies  Act, as amended time to time).

(b) 

Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.

(c) 

Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.

(d) 

Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period.

(e) 

Details   of   shareholding/ownership   pattern   especially   foreign   partners/shareholders,  
foreign employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt of 
India policies and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)/ DIPP norms  as
applicable.

(f) 

Annual budget for R&D during last three years.

(g) 

Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company.

(h) 

Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel.

(i) 

(j) 

Record   of   past   performance   (e.g.,   Supply   orders   executed   against   of   Ministry   of  
Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).

Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their production capacities) 
and 

technical expertise.

(k) 

List of Testing and Support equipments.

(l) 

ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification.

(m)  Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any).

(n) 

(o) 

(p) 

(q) 

Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept
attendant financial and commercial risks.

Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales  and
service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality.

PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy  Material,
explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc.

Under   taking   form   company   seeking   ToT   that   none   of   its   Directors,   Independent  
Directors, non-executive Directors, Key management personnel are involved in any  
corrupt practices, unfair means and illegal activities.

(r) 

Details of the industries license for Defence manufacturing be provided by the industry 
seeking ToTs.

 
 
