Light Weight Thermally Insulating Microwave Absorbing Structures

ASL   Hyderabad   has   developed   a   technology   for   fabrication,   qualification   of

composite   component   having   low   density,   high   insulating   capability   (thermal

conductivity   ~   0.1W/m-k)   with   broadband   microwave   absorbing   properties.

Composite  component manufactured using this  process is stable up to 330°C. The

primary constituents of these components are silicone resin, ceramic fabric, milled

carbon fibres/chopped carbon fibres.   The said composite, having density between

0.33  to  0.4  g/cc,   can   also  show  good   structural   rigidity   required  for  mechanical

handling, cutting grinding etc.   It can be made in to any shape having moderate

curvature.   This composite act as insulation liner behind airframes. Besides this, it

also   provides   additional   functionality   in   terms   of   electromagnetic   wave   absorbing

performance. Typical Fabrication Process involves realising composite through match

die moulding wet layup process.

Essential Infrastructure requirements:

(i)

Large   size   ovens   of   the   size   of   minimum   1.5   x   1.5   m   x   1   meter   (height)

working area.

(ii) Carbon fibre chopping machines.

(iii) Ball milling machines for milling the carbon fibres. 

(iv) Working area with elevated work benches of 2meters x 1.5 meters (min 3 nos.)

(v) Aluminium   dies   of  suitable   size  (to  be  custom   made  as  per  the  component.

Approximately 1.3 meter long with 800mm wide)

(vi) Facilities to handle large size dies which weigh around 500Kgs to 600Kgs

(vii) Weighing balances.

Following infrastructure need to be built (or to be tied up with firms which can

extend the following facilities)







Frees space material measurement setup to generate Electromagnetic properties

of Materials.

SEM   for   measuring   the   averaging   length   of   the   fibres/BET   for   surface   area

measurement

UTM to generate mechanical property data.

Page 1 of 3

Industry Partner Qualification Criterion: 

(i)

Should have minimum 10 years of experience in fabrication and delivery of

Aerospace grade materials with the approvals of MSQAA / CEMILAC.

(ii) Should   have   a   minimum   manpower   of   50   employees   with   at   least   5

Engineering graduates or Post graduates in Sciences.

(iii) Should have a minimum yearly turnover of 10 crores in last three consecutive

years.

Interested Industries are requested to forward their Expression of Interest (EoI) to

Director ASL, Hyderabad (with attachments of supporting documents) with a copy of

Director DIITM, DRDO HQ (without attachment) on following address:-

Director

Advanced Systems Laboratory (ASL)

Kanchanbagh P O 

Hyderabad - 500058

Ph.No: 040- 24188400

Fax: 040-24343779

Email: director[dot]asl[at]gov[dot]in

Copy to

Director

Directorate of Industry Interface & technology Management (DIITM)

Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, DRDO HQrs, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110011

Phone: 011-23013209/23015291

Fax: 011-23793008

Email: diitm[dot]hqr[at]gov]dot]in

List of Support documents to be attached with EoI 

a)

b)

c)

d)

Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per

Indian Companies Act, as amended time to time) 

Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any. 

Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years. 

Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period 

Page 2 of 3

e)

Details   of   shareholding/ownership   pattern   especially   foreign   partners/

shareholders, foreign employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere

to the prevailing Govt of India policies and regulations on Foreign Direct

f)

g)

h)

i)

j)

k)

l)

m)

n)

o)

p)

Investment (FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable. 

Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  

Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company. 

Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel. 

Record   of   past   performance   (e.g.,   Supply   orders   executed   against   of

Ministry of Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).

Availability   of   adequate   infrastructure   (List   of   machines   and   their

production capacities) and technical expertise.

List of Testing and Support equipment’s 

ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification

Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any)

Capacity  and  capability  to  undertake  developmental   work   and  to  accept

attendant financial and commercial risks. 

Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network,

sales and service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality.

PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy

Material, explosives, propellants,  and  component/ system dealing with  it

etc (if applicable). 

q)

Under   taking   form   company   seeking   ToT   that   none   of   its   Directors,

Independent Directors, non-executive Directors, Key management personnel

are involved in any corrupt practices, unfair means and illegal activities.

r)

Details of the industrials license for defence manufacturing be provided by

the industry seeking ToTs.

Page 3 of 3

