Passive Exoskeleton for Augmentation and Rapid Logistics (PEARL)

DEBEL has developed the state-of-art wearable exoskeleton systems that augment
the   capability   of   the   soldier   to   carry   more   weight   and   enhance   his   endurance.   These
structures are coupled with the human and move synchronously with the user. The primary
objective for development of passive exoskeleton system (PEARL) is to transfer the loads
carried by an individual, as a backpack, directly to the ground. The aim is to reduce the
compressive loads in the spine and lumbo-sacral joints during walking on even and uneven
terrains   at   faster   speeds   or   for   longer   distances.   This   will   in   turn   reduce   the   risk   of
musculoskeletal injury, increase the payload capacity and improve the endurance. 

Salient Features

i. Biomechanical

Standing, walking on even and uneven surfaces.

Activity

≤ 5kg
15 kg of backpack load
Up to 5 kmph

ii. Weight of PEARL
iii. Payload Capacity
iv. Walking Speed
v. Walking Terrains Walking possible on any even and uneven terrains
vi. Compatibility   with
gear,
  and
with

along with combat gear with weapons

Designed, tested and evaluated for

 Any type of shoes in service use during walking

 Any type of backpack (shoulder rucksack) load of 15 kg

combat
rucksack
shoes
exoskeleton
vii. Anthropomorphic
Variability

viii. RoM
ix. Advantages

Anthropomorphically modular design having adjustability from 5th
to 95th percentile (160cm – 190 cm) of variation in height
Unobtrusive to human natural walking
a. The   system   has   a   capacity   to  offload   a   maximum   of   75%
weight of the backpack payload to ground thereby reducing
the risk of radiculopathy and lower back spinal injuries

b. Donning time of <30 seconds and Doffing time < 15 seconds

 
 
1.

Interested Companies/industries are requested to apply against this EoI to the
following address:-

To, 
The Director,
Defence Bioengineering & Electromedical Laboratory
CV Raman Nagar, Bangalore-560 093
Email- director.debel@gov.in

2. 

A   copy   of   interest   may   be   sent   to   the   following   address   without   any  
attachment:-

To, 
The Director, 
Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM)
Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110 011
Email-diitm.hqr@gov.in

List of Support documents to be attached with EoI:-

(a)  Memorandum   and   Articles  of   Association   (Should   be   incorporated   as  per  

Indian Companies  Act, as amended time to time).

(b) 

Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.

(c) 

Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.

(d) 

Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period.

(e) 

  shareholding/ownership   pattern   especially  

Details   of
foreign   employees,  directors,   etc.   The   company  
partners/shareholders, 
must   adhere   to   the   prevailing   Govt   of   India   policies   and   regulations   on  
Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)/ DIPP norms as applicable.

foreign

(f) 

Annual budget for R&D during last three years.

(g) 

Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company.

(h) 

Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel.

(i) 

(j) 

Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry 
of Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).

Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their production  
capacities)  and  technical expertise.

(k) 

List of Testing and Support equipments.

 
(l) 

ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification.

(m)  Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any).

(n) 

(o) 

(p) 

(q) 

Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept
attendant financial and commercial risks.

Capacity/capability   to   market   the   product   through   the   marketing   network,  
service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality.
sales  and 

PESO and  DPIIT  license  for explosive  handling  if  ToT is for  high  energy  
Material,   explosives,   propellants,   and   component/   system   dealing   with   it  
etc.

Under   taking   form   company   seeking   ToT   that   none   of   its   Directors,  
Independent  Directors, non-executive Directors, Key management personnel 
are involved in any corrupt practices, unfair means and illegal activities.

(r) 

Details of the industries license for Defence manufacturing be provided by the
industry seeking ToTs.

