NMRL-136 black & white paint for submarine rubber tiles 
(NMRL-136 BWP)

Novel specialty paints are developed by NMRL for protection of rubber tiles of
submarines. This paint has been developed in black and white shades. It is a single
coat system for direct application on rubber substrate. 

The   essential   ingredients   of   this   paint   are   elastomeric   polymer,   pigments,
solvents,   and  specialty  additives.  Specialty  additives in   the   paint   formulation   provide
superior   adhesion,   thixotropicity,   wetting,   dispersion   and   defoaming   properties.   This
paint   can   be   prepared   using   ball   mill   and   high   speed   disperser.   The   paint   can   be
applied using brush/rollers and dries to form a hard and tough barrier coating to protect
the rubber tiles from seawater as well as weathering.

Salient features of coating

 Adhesion on rubber tiles 
 Direct application on rubber tiles
 Weather resistance 
 Resistant to water, alkali and oil
 Excellent flexibility and impact strength

Interested   Industries   are   requested   to   forward   their   Expression   of   Interest   (EOI)   to
Director NMRL, Ambernath (with attachments of supporting documents) with a copy to
Director DIITM, DRDO HQ (without attachment) on following address:-

To,
Director
Naval Materials Research Laboratory (NMRL)
DRDO, Ministry of Defence, Government of India
PO Anand Nagar
Ambernath (East)-421506
Phone : 0251-2623131
Fax : 0251-2623004

E-mail ID : director[dot]nmr[at]gov[dot]in

Copy to

Director
Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM)

Page 1 of 2

Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, DRDO HQrs, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110011
Phone: 011-23013209/23015291
Fax: 011-23793008

Email: diitm[dot]hqr[at]gov[dot]in

List of Support documents to be attached with EoI

a) Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian

Companies Act, as amended time to time)

b) Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.
c) Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.
d) Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period.
e) Details   of   shareholding/   ownership   pattern   especially   foreign   partners/
shareholders,  foreign employees,  directors, etc.  The  company  must  adhere to
the prevailing Govt of India policies and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment
(FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable.

f) Annual budget for R&D during last three years.
g) Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company.
h) Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel.
i) Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of

Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).

j) Availability   of   adequate   infrastructure   (List   of   machines   and   their   production

capacities) and technical expertise.
k) List of Testing and Support equipment’s
l)
m) Relevant clearances from the authorities/ ministries (if any)
n) Capacity   and   capability   to   undertake   developmental   work   and   to   accept

ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification

attendant financial and commercial risks.

o) Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales

and service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality.

p) PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy Material,
explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc (if applicable).
q) Undertaking from company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, Independent
Directors, non-executive Directors, Key management personnel are involved in
any corrupt practices, unfair means and illegal activities.

r) Details of the industrials license for defence manufacturing be provided by the

industry seeking ToTs.

Page 2 of 2

