Manufacturing of Carbon-Silicon Carbide Composite throat   

Ceramic   Matrix   Composites   (CMC),   are   well   known   for   their   excellent   thermo-mechanical
properties   and   high   temperature   erosion   resistance.   There   exists   a   huge   demand   for   such
materials where high temperature erosion and thermal shock is simultaneously encountered in
applications such as Throat Inserts, Nozzles and Thrusters of propulsion systems. 

A   throat   insert   is   made   with   typical   configuration   and   is   tested   under   highly   erosive   and
corrosive exhaust gases with solid alumina particle impingement of solid propulsion particularly
at the nozzle throat where high mass flux of the exhaust gases exert very high shear stresses in
addition to the chemical/oxidative attack which results into a severe thermo-oxidative recession
of the throat material.

ASL, Hyderabad has developed a technology of 3D non-woven NPP Carbon-Silicon Carbide (C-
SiC) throat insert having uniform mechanical strength and high thermal diffusivity, which gives
very   high   thermal   shock   resistance   property.   Uniform   carbon   fiber   orientation/network   also
provides   high   fracture   toughness.   The   combination   of   uniform   mechanical   and   thermal
properties, high thermal shock and fracture toughness of the 3D non-woven NPP C-SiC throat
insert make it ideal for throat application.

These processing involve various furnaces operating under inert/vacuum atmosphere with very
high temperature (up to 30000C) and high pressure (up to 1000 bar). 

DRDO   has   also   obtained   a   patent   of   this   technology   naming  “Three-Dimensional   Needle
Punched   Carbon-Silicon   Carbide   Composite,   Methods   of   Fabrication   thereof   and
Applications thereof”. 

3D NPP C-SiC throat insert

  
Interested companies/ industries are requested to apply against this EoI to following address:-

Director, 
Advanced Systems Laboratory (ASL)
Kanchanbagh P O,
Hyderabad - 500058
Ph.No: 040- 24188400
Fax: 040-24343779
Email: director[dot]asl[at]gov[dot]in

A copy of interest may be sent to the following address (without any attachment):-

Director 
Directorate Industry Interface and Technology Management (DIITM) 
Room No 447, DRDO Bhawan, DRDO HQrs, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi – 110011
Phone No: 01123013209/23015291
Fax No: 011-23793008
Email ID: diitm[dot]hqr[at]gov[dot]in

List of Support documents to be attached with EoI

a)

b)
c)
d)
e)

f)
g)
h)
i)

j)

k)
l)
m)
n)

o)

Memorandum   and   Articles   of   Association   (Should   be   incorporated   as   per   Indian
Companies Act, as amended time to time)
Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.
Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years. 
Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period 
Details   of   shareholding/ownership   pattern   especially   foreign   partners/   shareholders,
foreign employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt of
India   policies   and   regulations   on   Foreign   Direct   Investment   (FDI)/DIPP   norms   as
applicable. 
Annual budget for R&D during last three years. 
Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company.
Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel.
Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of Defence
orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any). 
Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their production capacities)
and technical expertise. 
List of Testing and Support equipment’s
ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification 
Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any)
Capacity   and   capability   to   undertake   developmental   work   and   to   accept   attendant
financial and commercial risks. 
Capacity/capability   to   market   the   product   through   the   marketing   network,   sales   and
service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality.

p)

q)

r)

PESO  and  DPIIT   license   for   explosive  handling  if   ToT   is  for  high  energy  Material,
explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc. 
Under   taking   form   company   seeking   ToT   that   none   of   its   Directors,   Independent
Directors,   non-executive   Directors,   Key   management   personnel   are   involved   in   any
corrupt practices, unfair means and illegal activities.
Details of the industrial license for defence manufacturing be provided by the industry
seeking ToTs.

