TECHNOLOGY 
VSDuksykWth Qksdl FOCUS

An In-house  S&T 
Bulletin of  DRDO

https://www.drdo.gov.in/technology-focus

Vol 33 | Issue 2 | March-April 2025 | ISSN No. 0971 - 4413

PIONEERING MILITARY PSYCHOLOGY 
RESEARCH FOR INDIA’S ARMED FORCES

"Empowering the Human behind the Machine"

Technology Focus highlights on the technological achievements in the organization 
covering the products, processes and technologies. 

March-April 2025 
Vol. 33 | Issue 2 | ISSN No. 0971-4413 

Laboratory Correspondents

Agra 

:  Shri SM Jain, ADRDE

Ahmednagar 

:  Col Atul Apte, Shri RA Shaikh, VRDE

Ambernath 

:  Dr Ganesh S Dhole, NMRL 

Bengaluru 

:  Shri Satpal Singh Tomar, ADE

Editor-in-Chief: Kiran Chauhan 

Assoc. Editor-in-Chief: Sudhanshu Bhushan

Editor: Dipti Arora 

Design & Prepress: Raj Kumar

Printing: Rajesh Kr Singh

Distribution: Pratyaksh Sharma

:  Smt MR Bhuvaneswari, CABS

:  Smt Faheema AGJ, CAIR

:  Shri R Kamalakannan, CEMILAC

:  Dr Sanchita Sil & Dr Sudhir S Kamble, DEBEL

:  Dr V Senthil, GTRE

:  Smt Saima Bashir, LRDE

:  Dr Sushant Chhatre, MTRDC

Defence Institute of Psychological Research

Chandigarh 

:   Dr Pal Dinesh Kumar, TBRL

:  Dr Anuja Kumari, DGRE

Chennai 

:   Shri K Anbazhagan, CVRDE

Dehradun 

:   Shri DP Tripathi, DEAL

:  Dr SK Mishra, IRDE

Delhi 

:   Shri Hemant Kumar, CFEES

:  Shri Santosh Kumar Choudhury, DIPR

:  Shri Navin Soni, INMAS

:  Dr Rupesh Kumar Chaubey, SSPL

Gwalior 

:  Dr AK Goel, DRDE

Haldwani 

:  Dr Atul Grover & Dr Ranjit Singh, DIBER

Hyderabad 

:  Shri Ch Narasimhachari, DLRL

:  Shri S Shashi Nath, DMRL

:  Shri Srinivas Juluru, DRDL

Jodhpur 

:  Shri DK Tripathi & Dr Yojana Janu, DL

Kanpur 

:  Dr Mohit Katiyar, DMSRDE

Kochi 

Leh 

:  Smt Letha MM, NPOL

:   Dr Tsering Stobden, DIHAR

Mysuru  

:  Dr M Palmurugan, DIBT 

Pune 

:  Dr Ganesh Shankar Dombe, HEMRL 
:  Shri AK Pandey, ARDE 
:  Dr Anoop Anand, R&DE(E)

Tezpur 

:   Dr Sibnarayan Datta, DRL

Charting New Horizons. . .

Readers may send their suggestions to

The Editor, Technology Focus  
DESIDOC, Metcalfe House 
Delhi-110 054
Telephone: 011-23902403, 23902472
Fax: 011-23819151; 011-23813465
E-mail: director.desidoc@gov.in;  
techfocus.desidoc@gov.in
https://www.drdo.gov.in/technology-focus

2

MARCH-APRIL 2025

MARCH-APRIL 2025

3

Technology FocusVSDu¨ykWth Q¨dl 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
From the Desk of Special Editor

I  take  pride  to  highlight  the  significant  achievements  of  Defence  Institute  of 
Psychological Research (DIPR), a premier laboratory under Soldier Support System 
cluster  of  DRDO  spearheading  research  in  the  specialised  domain  of  Military 
Psychology.  DIPR  has  made  significant  contributions  in  the  areas  of  selection, 
training, and has also rendered support to Indian Armed Forces through conducting 
seminars and training for psychological well-being of the soldiers.

The  teams  at  the  DIPR  have  made  sustained  R&D  contributions  in  developing 
indigenous psychological tools and solutions for the last seven and half decades. The Laboratory has been 
at the forefront of developing and continuously refining the Officer Selection System, playing a crucial 
role  in  shaping  the  future  leadership  of  the  Armed  Forces.  Through  rigorous  research  and  innovation,  
DIPR played a vital role in optimising human capital of our armed forces.

Since its inception as Psychological Research Wing (PRW) in 29 Aug 1949, the mandate of the Laboratory 
kept continuously evolving by adding many new dimensions and grew in strength and scope. A wide range 
of psychological products, research outcomes and interventions developed by DIPR find proud place in the 
inventories of the Armed Forces.

I  am  glad  that  there  is  a  considerable  spin-off  utility  of  DIPR's  expertise.  The  institute  has  rendered 
expertise  and  technical  help  to  many  national  institutes  of  repute  including  that  of  Central  Armed  
Police Forces, National Security Guard, Indian Coast Guard, Ministry of Home Affairs, Cabinet Secretariat, 
UPSC etc.

DIPR  conducts  Interviewing  Officers  (IO),  Group  Testing  Officers  (GTO)  and  Technical  Officers/
Psychologists courses for selection of Assessors responsible for evaluating and selecting the military leaders 
of our country. Through its expertise in military psychology, DIPR ensures that the selection process remains 
scientific, objective and aligned with the evolving demands of defence landscape. 

As  we  continue  advancing  technologically,  the  solutions  which  DIPR  is  providing  to  the  Services  are 
inherently state-of-the-art. I have no doubts that the Lab will thrive, flourish and sustain as a global leader 
driving cutting edge R&D in Military Psychology. 

I  commend  the  DIPR  team  and  urge  them  to  keep  pushing  the  boundaries  to  set  new  benchmarks  in  
their field. 

Dr UK Singh
Distinguished Scientist and 
Director General, Soldier Support System

2

MARCH-APRIL 2025

MARCH-APRIL 2025

3

VSDu¨ykWth Q¨dlTechnology FocusFrom the Desk of Guest Editor
It is well known that Indian Armed Forces function in world’s coldest Himalayan 
regions, long lasting sea and underwater missions, marshy areas, jungles, deserts and 
other  inhospitable  terrains.  The  contours  of  responsibilities  of  our  Armed  Forces, 
associated  external  and  internal  security  challenges  in  guarding  nation’s  vital 
interests are numerous & varied. 

In  the  ever-evolving  field  of  defence  and  security,  cutting-edge  technology  and 
advanced  weaponry  play  a  crucial  role.  However,  at  the  heart  of  every  successful 
military operation lies the most vital asset - “the human element”. No matter how sophisticated machines 
become, their effectiveness is ultimately determined by the cognitive, emotional and psychological readiness 
of the personnel operating them. Ensuring that soldiers, officers and defence personnel are psychologically 
prepared,  resilient,  and  well  equipped  to  handle  high  pressure  situations  is  as  important  as  providing 
them with the best technology. This is where the psychological principles and applied aspects of military 
psychology comes into play - shaping the selection, placement, training and overall psychological well-being 
of armed forces personnel. 

The DIPR has been at the forefront of R&D in military psychology, and with over 75 years of sustained 
research contributions, DIPR has evolved into a leader in this critical field. DIPR's core mandate revolves 
around the selection of commissioned officers and the screening of personnel for specialised roles, ensuring 
that individuals best suited for the demands of military services are chosen. However, its contributions 
go far beyond selection. The institute plays a pivotal role in enhancing training methodologies, providing 
psychological  support  and  conducting  research  on  leadership,  civil-military  interoperability  and  
perception management. 

Additionally, DIPR leads research studies for promoting psychological wellness among troops and their 
families  for  extending  the  required  psychological  support  necessary  for  a  balanced  and  resilient  force.          
The institute also delves into culturally sensitive and inter-cultural adaptation strategies, which are crucial 
in today’s globalised military operations. 

Furthermore, gender integration in military settings, aviation psychology and human factors research are key 
focus areas that contribute to optimizing performance and efficiency within the forces. The Computerised 
Pilot Selection System (CPSS) remains the backbone for the selection of candidates for the flying branch of 
the Armed Forces. DIPR's leadership in continuous training of asssessors and standardisation of selection 
system has been instrumental for evolving ingenious solutions & strengthening psychological support to the 
Indian Armed Forces. The spin-offs of DIPR's research work has benefitted Central Armed Police Forces, 
security agencies and other civilian organisations of national repute.

In this remarkable journey of excellence, DIPR has been pioneering advancements in military psychology, 
fortifying the strength and strategic capability of India’s Armed Forces. 

Dr Arunima Gupta 
Director, DIPR

4

MARCH-APRIL 2025

MARCH-APRIL 2025

5

Technology FocusVSDu¨ykWth Q¨dlPIONEERING MILITARY PSYCHOLOGY 
RESEARCH FOR INDIA’S ARMED FORCES

History  has  amply  demonstrated  that  military 
engagements  worldwide  have  consistently  been  a 
transformative phenomenon, whether for defence or 
dominance.  At  the  heart  of  every  operation,  conflict 
or  war  stands  the  soldier  -  ‘the  human  element’ 
whether on the frontlines or shaping outcomes from 
a  distance.  This  enduring  presence  underscores  the 
critical  importance  of  military  psychology  as  a  vital 
field for R&D for safeguarding a nation’s sovereignty. 
The vast and complex spectrum of human capabilities 
differs  greatly  from  person  to  person,  making  it 
essential to apply psychological principles extensively 
in the selection of armed forces personnel to ensure 
the right fit for the demands of military service.  

The  nascent  steps  and  seeds  of  psychological 
research  for  armed  forces  was  sown  well  before 
independence  with  establishment  of  Experimental 
Board  at  Dehradun  way  back 
in  1943.  After 
independence,  the  lab  became  part  of  Defence 
Science Organisation and was known as Psychological 
Research Wing (PRW), founded in 29 Aug 1949 under 
the Ministry of Defence. Dr Sohan Lall, appointed as 
the  Chief  Psychologist  in  the  Ministry  of  Defence,  
architected the R&D in military psychology in India.

The main role envisaged for PRW was to conduct 
research in Personnel Selection Methods, to develop 
and  standardise  tools  for  selection  of  personnel  at 
Service  Selection  Boards  (SSBs),  maintain  selection 
data and relevant statistics and to train the assessors 
for  effective  functioning  at  SSBs.  The  PRW  made  a 
significant  contribution  in  various  areas  related  to 
armed forces and since its inception, the mandate of 
the  institute  kept  continuously  evolving  by  adding 
many  new  dimensions  and  grew  in  strength  and 
scope.

The  PRW  was  designated  as  Directorate  of 
Psychological  Research  (DPR)  on  28th  June  1962. 
During 
the  same  year,  Applied  Psychological 
Laboratory  (APL)  was  established  as  its  lower 
formation.  Naval  Psychological  Research  Unit 

(NPRU)  at  Kochi  which  had  been  established  in 
December  1956  under  Defence  Science  Laboratory 
(DSL)  was  made  a  part  of  APL  in  1962.  Later  in 
1963,  an  Ideology  Group  was  constituted  in  DPR  to 
study  problems  related  to  Morale,  Motivation  and 
Operational  efficiency  of  the  Armed  Forces.  APL 
and  NPRU  were  merged  into  DPR  on  26th  August 
1967.  DPR  took  on  new  areas  of  research  related  to 
morale,  ideological  convictions,  group  effectiveness, 
leadership behaviour, job satisfaction, high altitude, 
motivation,  attitude,  anthropometrics,  civil  military 
relations and other problems related to Armed Forces. 
Meeting these challenges successfully, Directorate of 
Psychological Research (DPR) grew into a full-fledged 
independent  Laboratory  and  was  designated  as 
Defence  Institute  of  Psychological  Research  (DIPR) 
in October 1982. 

The  core  mandate  of  DIPR  is  the  selection  of 
commissioned officers and screening of personnel for 
specialised roles and it further fortifies Indian Armed 
Forces  by  pioneering  research  in  multiple  domains 
and  research  verticals  including  Leadership,  civil-
military  interoperability,  perception  management, 
preventive  and  promotive  psychological  wellness 
of  troops  and  families,  cultural  sensitive  and  inter-
cultural  adaptation,  gender  integration  in  military 
settings, aviation psychology and human factors. 

the  armed 

DIPR  plays  a  pivotal  role  in  optimising  human 
capital  within 
forces  by  applying 
psychological expertise and has also extended its reach 
to  Central  Armed  Police  Forces  (CAPFs)  and  other 
key national institutions. DIPR has collaborated with 
many  academia  and  research  institutes  of  national 
and  international  repute.  The  advanced  research 
and tailored interventions ensures identification and 
selection of Right Fit for high-stakes environments. 

With  75  years  of  sustained  R&D  excellence, 
DIPR  has  established  itself  as  a  leader  in  military 
psychology  and  is  now  pioneering  new  frontiers  by 
driving  psychologically  driven  -  technology  enabled 
solutions  to  empower  the  Man  behind  the  Machine 
and further strengthen the Armed Forces of India. 

4

MARCH-APRIL 2025

MARCH-APRIL 2025

5

VSDu¨ykWth Q¨dlTechnology FocusCOMPUTERISED PILOT SELECTION 
SYSTEM (CPSS) 

Military  aircrafts  are  complex,  integrated  with 
an  array  of  advanced  onboard  avionics,  stealth 
technologies,  flight  controls,  secure  data-links, 
payloads  and  precision  strike  weapons.  In  modern 
fighter  aircraft,  the  pilot  functions  as  a  systems 
manager  controlling  aircraft  systems  and  with 
significant  technological  advancements,  individuals 
are  required  to  correctly  perceive  the  information 
presented  to  them  through  various  displays  and 
instruments  from  several  onboard  sensors  and 
combine  the  same  with  flight  data  precisely  in  real 
time during training, operations and while handling 
emergencies  which  places  significant  cognitive 
demands on the pilots. 

A  state-of-the-art  Computerised  Pilot  Selection 
System (CPSS) has been jointly developed by Defence 
Institute  of  Psychological  Research  (DIPR)  and 
Aeronautical  Development  Establishment  (ADE) 
with support from IAF for selection of military pilots 
for flying branch of Indian Armed Forces. 

The  embedded  microcontroller-based  CPSS  with 
built-in security features is used to comprehensively 
evaluate  the  candidates’  cognitive  and  psychomotor 
skills  by  subjecting  them  to  perform  concurrent 
multiple  tasks  and  ensures  objectivity  in  results  
and uniformity in the degree of difficulty faced by the 
candidates.

Psychomotor Testing Hall

3D view of CPSS Prototype

Features

Cognitive Testing System

•  Assesses the pilot-specific cognitive abilities

•  Customised membrane keyboard

Psychomotor Testing System

•  Assesses  the  psychomotor  coordination  (multi-

limb and eye-hand coordination)

•  Ergonomically  designed  cockpit  with  control 

joystick, rudder and throttle for operation

•  Audio-visual warning display for multi-tasking

Instructor Station

•  Initiation of the tests and seamless operations 

•  Real-time monitoring of the system functionality 

Cognitive Testing Hall

•  Multimedia-based centralised projection system

6

MARCH-APRIL 2025

MARCH-APRIL 2025

7

Technology FocusVSDu¨ykWth Q¨dlCentralised Server System

•  Central  server  for  data  storage  with  real-time 

backup

•  Dual redundancy for networking

Major Achievements

•  Inducted in Air Force Selection Boards (AFSB) on  

28 Nov 2014.

•  300  Cognitive  and  60  Psychomotor  systems 
installed and commissioned at Air Force Selection 
Board (AFSB) at Mysore, Dehradun and Varanasi.

•  500  Cognitive  and  100  Psychomotor  systems 
equipped with upgraded hardware and software is 
currently being installed in all five AFSBs.

•  LAToT  of  CPSS  hardware 

to  M/s.Bharat 

Electronics Limited.

•  Appreciation  certificate  from  Hon'ble  Raksha 
Mantri during SAMARTHYA indigenisation event 
at Aero India 2025.

The test ensures that individuals with the required 
psychological attributes are selected as military pilots 
which  helps  to  maintain  the  operational  readiness 
and aviation safety, essential for protecting national 
interest. 

DIPR  has  decades  of  in-house  expertise  and  has 
carried out extensive R&D in pilot selection systems, 
a  domain  which  has  immense  export  potential.  
For  meeting  the  demands  of  pilot  selection  systems 
globally,  DIPR  has  designed  and  developed  a  new 
Exportable  Pilot  Aptitude  Test  System  (ePAT)  for 
export. The key aspects of the System include:

•  Evaluates  relevant  cognitive  and  psychomotor 

abilities required by the military pilots. 

•  Assesses 

the 

information  processing  speed, 
selective  attention,  vigilance,  working  memory, 
and eye-hand & multi-limb coordination.  

•  Portable test set-up with ease of maintenance and 

equipped with centralised monitoring.

EXPORTABLE PILOT APTITUDE 
TEST SYSTEM (EPAT)

Features

The demanding nature of defence aviation requires 
individuals with exceptional skills, focus and mental 
fortitude. The Pilot Aptitude Test (PAT) is of critical 
importance  as  it  assesses  the  fundamental  abilities 
required for military pilots.  

6

MARCH-APRIL 2025

ePAT System

•  USB-based  membrane  keyboard  with  built-in 

security features.

•  Integrated  portable  ergonomically  designed  test 
set-up with COTS joystick and pedal for seamless 
testing.

•  Psychometrically validated assessment software.

•  Provision  to  test  large  number  of  candidates 
simultaneously with automated generation of test 
scores and candidate's profile.

•  Health  monitoring  system  as  part  of  instructor 
station  with  centralised  database  for  monitoring 
and conducting tests efficiently.

Major Achievements

•  Prototype of ePAT system has been developed. 

•  Demonstrated during AERO INDIA 2025.

MARCH-APRIL 2025

7

VSDu¨ykWth Q¨dlTechnology FocusCOGNITIVE BATTERY FOR OFFICER 
SELECTION (CBOS)

Comprehensive cognitive assessment is crucial in 
the selection process, as cognitive ability is a reliable 
predictor of job performance across all roles. It helps 
identify  candidates  with  critical  thinking,  problem-
solving  and  learning  abilities  essential  for  success 
in  a  dynamic  work  environment.  This  is  especially 
important for the Indian Armed Forces, where quick 
decision-making, adaptability, and strategic thinking 
are vital for operational effectiveness. 

Cognitive Abilities

 Major Achievements

•  Handed 

over 

to 

Director 

Recruiting 
21 March 2023.

and 

ACOP 

General 
on  

(HRD) 

•  A  hyper  converged  IT  test  bed  for  field  trials  of 
tests  and  systems  developed  by  DIPR  has  been 
set-up at Selection Centre South (SCS), Bengaluru.

AIR TRAFFIC CONTROLLER 
SELECTION SYSTEM (ATC-SS)

Air Traffic Control (ATC) is the fulcrum of aviation, 
ensuring  the  safety  and  efficiency  of  every  flight,  by 
directing  aircraft  movements  and  providing  crucial 
information  to  pilots.  ATC  plays  an  indispensable 

Computer Testing Hall at SCS, Bengaluru

Features

•  Paradigm  shift 

intelligence 
comprehensive cognitive assessment

from 

testing 

to 

•  Multi-modal  assessment  (visual  as  well  as 

auditory)

•  Item bank has been developed and standardised. 

•  Computerised testing system

•  Objective assessment

•  Bilingual instructions

•  Trials and examples for each test

•  Automatic scoring and report generation

ATC Selection System

8

MARCH-APRIL 2025

MARCH-APRIL 2025

9

Technology FocusVSDu¨ykWth Q¨dlrole  in  maintaining  smooth  and  secure  aviation 
operations.  The  selection  system  evaluates  the 
skills  and  abilities  of  individuals  to  determine  their 
suitability as ATC.

Modern Day Challenges for ATC

The  ATC  is  a  specialised  role  which  demands 
high  cognitive  skills.  A  computerised  test  software 
has  been  designed  and  developed  to  assess  varied  
psychological abilities/attributes.

Cognitive Profile 

Major Achievements

Numerical 
Proficiency

Mental 
Rotation

Spatial 
Orientation

Angle 
Detection

Cognitive 
Style

Spatial 
Working 
Memory

Visual 
Scanning

Personality 
Test

Multi- 
tasking

Vigilance

Features

•  User friendly interface

•  Separate User and Admin applications

•  Automated scoring

•  Provides individual profile separately for cognitive 

and personality tests.

•  Generates detailed reports with statistical insights

•  The computerised test has been developed. 

•  Spin-off for civilian applications and identified as 

a product with export potential.

COMPUTERISED PSYCHOLOGICAL 
SCREENING SYSTEM (COPSYSS)

The Computerised Psychological Screening System 
(COPSYSS) was specifically developed to address the 
unique requirements of pre-deployment screening of 
the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel to 
the security sensitive job(s). 

COPSYSS was designed and executed with the goal 
of providing a streamlined, effective and scientifically 
valid  method 
the  psychological 
suitability of CRPF personnel. 

for  assessing 

The development of COPSYSS involved a detailed 
and  thorough  design  process,  incorporating  inputs 
from psychological experts as well as from the CRPF 
regarding the specific needs of their personnel. This 
ensured  that  the  system  was  tailored  to  suit  the 
distinct nature of the job requirements. 

MARCH-APRIL 2025

9

8

MARCH-APRIL 2025

VSDu¨ykWth Q¨dlTechnology FocusThe system was developed with efficiency in mind, 
optimising both the administration and the delivery 
of  the  psychological  tests,  while  also  ensuring  that 
collected  data  could  be  processed  and  analysed 
quickly and accurately. 

•  Web-browser based system which runs on client-

server architecture. 

•  Ensures  conducting 

thorough,  reliable  and 

efficient psychological evaluation. 

Features

The Main Modules

Major Achievements

Handed over to the DG, CRPF on 08 Aug 2023 and 

inducted. 

COPSYSS  comprises  of  two  main  modules  -  the 
test  administration  system  and  automated  test 
delivery  system.  Both  modules  are  crucial  for  the  
successful  implementation  and  operation  of  the 
screening process. 

CROWD BEHAVIOUR ANALYSIS-
DECISION SUPPORT SYSTEM 
(CBA-DSS)

Module I - Test Administration System

•  The 

test 

administration 

system  provides 
foundational  infrastructure  for  managing  the 
entire screening process. 

•  One  of  its  key  features  is  the  management  of 
testing candidate's batches which allows  smooth 
organization and tracking of test takers. 

•  Additionally,  the  system  is  capable  of  generating 
automated  test  reports,  which  can  be  used  by 
psychological  experts  and  CRPF  personnel  to 
evaluate  the  results  of  the  tests  quickly  and 
comprehensively. 

Module II - Automated Test Delivery System

•  Focused on actual delivery and administration of 

the test. 

•  Designed to include the features of computerized 
test  delivery,  suitable  for  individual  as  well  as 
group administration. 

•  User-friendly, ensuring that participants can easily 

navigate through the process. 

•  Each test begins with displaying clear instructions, 
providing  the  participants  with  a  comprehensive 
understanding of the testing procedure. 

•  The inclusion of a practice set, with a feedback on 
performance ensures that the participants are well 
prepared before undertaking the actual test.  

10

MARCH-APRIL 2025

DIPR identified 122 psychological markers of crowd 
behaviour.  These  markers  in  combination  suggest 
the probability of violent behaviour in a crowd. With 
the technological advancements, a Crowd Behaviour 
Analysis-Decision  Support  System  (CBA-DSS)  was 
developed on a set of crowd behavioural markers by 
using Artificial Intelligence based Visual Surveillance 
Tool,  which  may  help  security  forces  in  decision-
making  process  to  manage  and  control  the  violent/
disruptive behaviour of crowd. 

Detection of Crowd Behaviour

MARCH-APRIL 2025

11

Technology FocusVSDu¨ykWth Q¨dlLeveraging  deep 

learning  algorithms,  data 
integration  and  real  time  monitoring,  CBA-DSS 
combines  multiple  trained  AI  models  with  a  non-
invasive  approach  to  detect  predefined  crowd 
behaviour markers in live or stored video feeds. These 
algorithms extract features from pre-processed video 
frames and analyse them using predefined parameters 
and  thresholds  to  identify  potential  triggers  for 
violent/disruptive behaviour within a crowd. 

Features

•  The system can predict the probability of violence 
in  a  given  crowd  video  on  10  crowd  behaviour 
intervention  and 
timely 
markers  allowing 
management.

•  Provides  a  non-invasive  monitoring  process, 
promoting  better  acceptance  and  compliance 
during the screening process.

•  Offers  a  cost-effective  solution  for  detecting 
various  markers  that  indicate  the  presence  of 
critical visual cues in a given crowd feed. 

•  It can be deployed in restricted or sensitive areas.

•  User-friendly  interface  allows  crowd  screenings 
to be conducted across different settings, enabling 
manual configuration of video feed mode, relevant 
markers, threat weightage and more. 

Major Achievements

•  System has been developed and validated

•  Demonstrated to the Users

•  Field  Manual  on  Detection,  Analysis  and 

Management of violent Crowd Behaviour

•  Copyright granted in 2024

•  Patent filed jointly with DIAT, Pune

•  ToT has been initiated

COMPUTERISED ADAPTIVE TEST 
FOR EMOTIONAL STABILITY  
(ES-CAT)

DIPR  has  developed  a  Computerised  Adaptive 
Test (CAT) for the assessment of emotional stability 
for in-house competency building. In comparison to 
the conventional testing procedure, where candidates 
must  answer  every  question  regardless  of  relevance 
to their ability level, CAT offers a personalised testing 
experience. 

CBA-DSS GUI

that 

This  adaptive  mechanism  ensures 

the 
question  being  administered  is  neither  too  easy 
nor  too  difficult,  providing  a  more  accurate  tailored 
assessment  of  the  examinee’s  true  theta  level.  CAT 
algorithm makes use of Item Response Theory (IRT) 
and  continuously  assesses  the  theta  based  on  each 
successive  item  administration  and  selects  the  next 
question accordingly from the item bank.

10

MARCH-APRIL 2025

Marker Weightage Setting Module

Field Manual

Features

•  Tailored assessment approach.

•  Better precision in the psychometric assessment.

•  Time and cost effective.

•  Better  engagement  of  the  examinee  in  terms  of 
maintaining  higher  motivation  and  interest  and 

MARCH-APRIL 2025

11

VSDu¨ykWth Q¨dlTechnology Focusthereby reducing the assessment anxiety.

•  Better  control  of  item  exposure  and  test  content 

balancing.

APTITUDE CENTRIC TRADE 
ALLOCATION SYSTEM

Development of the prototype was carried out in-
house at DIPR. Item bank was developed by utilizing 
the data primarily from student sample. Performance 
of  the  CAT  for  emotional  stability  was  assessed 
through post-hoc simulation by using the true theta 
under  different  threshold  (standard  error)  of  theta 
estimation.  The  findings  indicate  that  the  ES-CAT 
provides valid assessment of the construct.

Men are the frontline guardians of Indian Armed 
Forces  and  are  required  to  be  fit,  both  physically 
and  psychologically.  To  test  their  suitability  as  per 
their  job,  Aptitude  Centric  Trade  Allocation  System 
is  developed  by  DIPR.  This  system  facilitates  in 
determining  the  most  suitable  candidate  for  a 
particular  trade  by  assessing  the  aptitude  of  the 
candidate.

Features

•  Assesses cognitive and psychomotor skills

•  Reduction of wastage and cuts out long periods of 

training

•  Computerised and user-friendly system

•  Reliable, valid and objective 

•  Effective predictor of future achievements

Computerised Adaptive Test for Emotional Stability

Aptitude components

ORTAS and BAS

Test Demo of Computerised Adaptive Test

Major Achievements

The R&D would pave the way for development of 
advanced psychometric tests based on CAT and IRT.

12

MARCH-APRIL 2025

MARCH-APRIL 2025

13

Technology FocusVSDu¨ykWth Q¨dlMajor Achievements

Features

•  Other  Rank  Trade  Allocation  System  (ORTAS) 
Version  1.0:  Implemented  in  the  eight  Arms  and 
Services in 2010. 

•  ORTAS  Version  2.0:  Customized  based  on  the 
specific  requirements  of  the  Arms  and  Services 
and implemented in 2015. 

•  ORTAS Version 3.0: Implemented in 2017.

•  Branch  Allocation  System  was  handed  over  to 
Principal INA on 05 August 2021 at INA, Ezhimala

PSYCHOLOGICAL SCREENING 
TOOL (PSYSHOT) FOR SPECIALISED 
ROLES IN THE INFANTRY, INDIAN 
ARMY

Specialised  roles  within  the  Infantry  are  critical 
to the modern Army’s ability to operate effectively in 
diverse combat environments. These roles ensure that 
infantry units are not only versatile but also capable 
of  addressing  complex  challenges,  executing  precise 
missions, and adapting to evolving warfare dynamics. 

Psychological  Screening 

'PsySHOT'  has 
been  conceptualised  by  DIPR  in  collaboration  with 
Infantry School, Mhow. 

tool 

The tool has been scientifically validated through 
a  collaborative  process  involving  subject  matter 
experts,  field  trials  and  on-site  evaluations  with 
support  from  Army  Training  Command  (ARTRAC). 
It aids in identifying right fit for specialised roles in 
Infantry in the Indian Army.

12

MARCH-APRIL 2025

Interaction and Data Collection

•  Assesses  the  cognitive  abilities  and  personality 

attributes for the specialised roles

•  Test  developed  and  standardised  using  scientific 

methods

•  Ease in Administration

•  Provides overall grade for each candidate

•  Automated  scoring 

tool 

for 

instant  result 

generation 

Major Achievements

•  Handed over to the Commandant, Infantry School, 

Mhow on 03 Oct 2024 and inducted.

•  A  new  computerised  version  (C-PsySHOT)  with 
additional psychological tests is in advanced stages 
of development.

COMPUTERISED LANGUAGE 
APTITUDE TEST (CLAT)

The  process  of  learning  a  new  language  involves 
some  rules  such  as  getting  familiarized  with  words, 
scripts  and  understanding  the  grammatical  rules 
to  form  a  meaningful  statement.  The  aptitude  tests 
are  developed  to  measure  these  abilities  which  are 
required to learn new language and one’s potential to 
learn a new language is assessed.

Language Aptitude Test (LAT) has been developed 
by the DIPR for the Indian Armed Forces. This test is  
computerised. 

Features

Language Aptitude Test has two parts: 

Part-I

•  Immediate recall 

•  Spelling clues test 

•  Translation from English to new language 

•  New language to English 

•  Delayed recall

MARCH-APRIL 2025

13

VSDu¨ykWth Q¨dlTechnology FocusAdministrator Module

evolving. They themselves have to become a system 
which is compatible with the range of technologies in 
their hand. 

In  case  of  Indian  Coast  Guard  (ICG),  the 
complexity  increases  manifolds,  as  it  is  not  just  the 
technology but also the challenging ship environment 
where the personnel have to spend days or sometimes 
even  month.  Due  to  this,  it  becomes  imperative  for 
choosing  the  right  man  for  the  right  job  who  is  not 
just able to adapt in the milieu but also can function 
efficiently and effectively to full potential. 

A  requirement  was  projected  by  ICG  to  develop 
a  psychological  screening  test  to  assess  adaptability 
and suitability of Enrolled Personnel (EP) in the ICG.    

Features

•  A  situational  judgement  test  and  situations  close 
to real life experiences were developed so that they 
can be related easily by the candidates.

•  Standardised  by  using  well  established  statistical 

methods.

•  Gives a single overall score for each candidate.

•  Objective scoring and assessment. 

Part-II

Test demo of CLAT at Panchmarhi

Major Achievements

•  Symbol recognition 

•  Script learning and writing 

•  Decoding script

Major Achievements

•  Test has been standardised

•  Every year, Language Aptitude Test is conducted 

for Armed Forces pesonnel

COAST GUARD ADAPTABILITY 
TEST (COGAT)

In  a  world  where  the  war  fields  are  heavily 
dominated  by  technology  intensive  systems,  the 
man  behind  the  machine  has  to  continuously  keep 

14

MARCH-APRIL 2025

The test was handed over to Indian Coast Guard in 

April 2024.

PSYCHO-EDUCATIONAL AID 
FOR COMBATING STRESS                   
(COMBAT-APP)

The operational stress is imminent to the life of a 
soldier and maintaining the operational efficiency is 
crucial to his/her combat role. 

To  sustain  the  optimal  efficiency  in  soldiers,  two 
offline  psycho-educational  applications  have  been 
developed which are secure, personal and self-paced, 
thus,  providing  an  optimal  psychological  support  to 
the soldier with minimal human interface. 

MARCH-APRIL 2025

15

Technology FocusVSDu¨ykWth Q¨dl•  Automated  assessment 

tool 
management plan: Stressometer

integrated  with 

•  Unit-based  games 

for 

team  building, 

trust 

propagation and motivation

•  Guided imagery-based audio sessions for positivity 

and relaxation  

ComBAT Active App

This app is developed for all ranks of Indian Armed 
Forces  keeping  in  mind  the  operational  stressors 
being  faced  by  them  and  training  them  upon  the 
strategies to counter the same. 

It  is  quite  engaging  with  nearly  two  hundred 
interactive  psychological  activities  and  offers  a 
wide  range  of  options  to  the  soldiers  to  pick  from 
reading  something  meaningful  to  doing  something 
worthwhile  or  listen  something  engaging  based  on 
their choice and convenience. 

Features

•  In-situ  psycho-eduactional  aid  for  combating 

Assessment and Management of Combat Stress Behaviours (CSBs)

Positive Psychology-based ComBAT App

stress

ComBAT App

This  app  has  been  developed  for  officers  of 
Indian  Armed  Forces.  Military  Leaders  have  a  dual 
responsibility  of  managing  self  as  well  as  their  Unit 
to the best.  

Facing  the  odds,  the  leaders  have  to  upkeep  the 
morale of the unit and give them a sense of security, 
trust, control and dependability for each other. 

Features 

The application is based on an indigenous model 
of  psycho-bio-social  markers  of  combat  stress  in 
Indian soldiers.   

•  Offline application for Android and Windows 

•  Network independent application

•  Five distinct sections to assess and manage combat 

stress 

•  Offline application that runs without network 

•  Self-paced, engaging, personal and highly secure 

•  Text-to-speech  facility  for  optimal  usage  and 

multi-tasking

•  Two  distinct  sections  for  educating  upon  combat 
stress:  (a)  Sainya  tanav  (Combat  Stress),  and  (b) 
Prabandhan (Management)

•  High sense of user control with (a) Read, (b) Listen 

and (c) Do options 

•  Gamified psychological activities in the 'Do', flash 
cards in 'Read' and guided audios in 'Listen' section 

•  Temporary memory and storage with no media or 
contact access and Android & Windows compatible

Major Achievements

•  Both  these  apps  are  being  widely  used  by  the 

Services. 

•  Copyright granted in 2018.

14

MARCH-APRIL 2025

MARCH-APRIL 2025

15

VSDu¨ykWth Q¨dlTechnology FocusGENDER AND MILITARY IN PEACE, 
CONFLICT AND SECURITY

DIPR  research  in  area  of  gender  and  military 
began  with  an  international  collaborative  project 
on  ‘Integration  of  women  and  gender  issues  in 
extraterritorial  military  operations’,  with  DSTL,  UK 
from 2017 to 2020. 

The research aimed to study women peacekeeper’s 
role  in  UN  missions  and  enhance  their  functional 
efficiency  by  providing  framework  of  evidence-
based  recommendations  and  strategies  for  greater 
integration.

Features

•  Effectiveness  of  integration  of  women  in  mission 
roles towards gender responsiveness and reducing 
gender based violence.

•  Identification  of  key  issues  to  achieve  gender 

balance in UN peacekeeping.

•  Framework  of  strategies  to  services  for  greater 
gender  integration  on  UN  missions  and  their 
effective engagement.

Major Achievements 

•  Gender  sensitisation  training  Module,  Manual 
on 'Women as leaders’. A collaborative work with 
UN  agencies,  WISCOMP,  DSTL,  and  academic 
institutions.

•  The  findings  and  key  learnings  derived  from  the 
research  are  inducted  as  lectures  on  ‘Gender, 
Women, Peace and Security’ and ‘Challenges faced 
by  women  on  missions’  in  UN,  pre-deployment 
national  and  International  courses  conducted  by 
Centre for United Nations Peacekeeping (CUNPK), 
Indian Army by IHQ (Army), Delhi.

Manuals Inducted in Indian Armed Forces

The  laboratory  has  developed  training  manuals 
on gender sensitisation and women as leaders for the 
integration  of  women  in  Armed  Forces  which  have 

16

MARCH-APRIL 2025

been inducted by the Indian Armed Forces and as a 
spin-off also handed over to the Paramilitary Forces.

Gender Sensitisation Workshops in various 
DRDO Labs

As part of DRDO campaign for conducting gender 
sensitisation  of  its  personnel  with  the  mandate  of 
having  a  Diversity,  Equality  and  Inclusivity  (DEI) 
at  workplace,  conducted  workshops  in  different 
laboratories of DRDO. Around 1000 personnel from 
all cadres attended these workshops.

SHORT FILM ‘CHUNAUTI - LIFE OF 
A SOLDIER’

Social,  familial,  occupational  challenges  faced  by 
soldiers of Indian Armed Forces are unique in nature 
and  therefore  there  is  a  requirement  to  develop  a 
psycho-education tool for educating soldiers at mass 
level. 

Awareness  about  scientific  ways  and  means  to 
manage  the  inevitable  routine  military  challenges  is 
required.  To address this the laboratory has developed 
a 35 minutes short film ‘Chunauti - Life of a Soldier’ 
for  enabling  soldier  in  appraising  routine  military 
challenges  in  positive  way,  it  also  helps  soldiers  in 
positive appraisal of their routine inevitable military 
challenges. 

MARCH-APRIL 2025

17

Technology FocusVSDu¨ykWth Q¨dl•  The  movie  was  screened  to  DGAFMS,  DGLS, 

DGMS (Army, Air Force and Navy) 

•  4500  copies  of  Chunauti  has  been  handed 
over  to  O/o  DGAFMS  for  dissemination  to  the  
Tri-services.

•  Copyright granted in 2018.

COMPUTERISED PSYCHOLOGICAL 
SCREENING TEST FOR INDUCTION 
OF NSG COMMANDOS

the 

important 

National  Security  Guard  (NSG) 

is  the  elite 
commando  force  of  the  country  which  is  entrusted 
with 
responsibilities. 
Considering  the  specialised  roles  of  NSG,  it  was  of 
paramount  importance  that  the  personnel  inducted 
as  commandos  must  be  assessed  for  requisite  
job-specific psychological attributes. 

security 

Based  on  the  requirements  projected  by  NSG, 
DIPR  carried  out  job  analysis,  identified  eleven  
job-specific requisite personality qualities, developed 
psychological  screening  test  and  alternate  sets  for 
their assessment and handed over to the User.

As  per  the  requirement  of  NSG 

in  2021,  
a  computerised  version  was  developed  and  handed 
over to the User. 

Features

•  A computerised test based on situation judgement 
based  test  items  for  tapping  personality  qualities 
requisite for NSG specific job. 

•  Auto-generates multiple test sets. Each set of test 
contains 70 situation judgement-based items. 

•  The  test  provides  a  composite  score  and  detailed 
profile  of  every  candidate  on  the  personality 
qualities.

Unified Model for Management of Stress

Features

•  The  story  of  the  film  is  based  on  data  and  case 
studies taken from all commands of Tri-services.

•  The basic framework of the short movie is to create 
a  psychological  environment  within  the  soldier 
and  enable  them  to  perceive  routine  stresses  as 
eustress and reconstruct cognition so as to develop 
healthy coping mechanism within  the ‘Self’ of each 
soldier.

•  The film depicts unhealthy thinking styles (named 
as  deemag  kee  deemak)  and  scientific  ways  to 
overcome negative thought patterns.

•  The  film  progresses  with  a  thematic  song 
summarising  the  coping  strategies  portrayed  in 
the film. 

Short Film CHUNAUTI 

Major Achievements

16

MARCH-APRIL 2025

MARCH-APRIL 2025

17

•  The  film  was  reviewed  and  validated  by 
Psychiatrists,  O/o  DGAFMS,  DGMS  (Army) 
DGMS (Air) and DGMS (Navy), Academia, Media, 
and Scientists. 

Major Achievements

The computerised test system was handed over to 

NSG in 2022 and inducted in  2023. 

VSDu¨ykWth Q¨dlTechnology FocusPROBLEM-SOLVING APPROACH 
BASED PSYCHOLOGICAL 
ASSESSMENT TOOL FOR 
SCIENTISTS’ SELECTION (PSYAT)
scientist  has  multitude  of 

roles  and 
responsibilities  which  are  of  scientific  as  well  as 
techno-managerial nature. The job requires to work 
in teams, interact and communicate with the Users, 
Academia,  Industry  partners  and  Start-ups  among 
many others. 

A 

In  view  of  the  varied  nature  of  job  of  a  scientist, 
it is essential to evaluate a candidate not only on the 
research aptitude and technical knowledge, but also 
on certain psychological attributes which can provide 
inputs about his/her individual and team functioning. 

Therefore,  an  innovative  methodology  that  is, 
scientific  theme-based  problem-solving  approach  
has  been  designed  and  developed.  This  approach 
is  likely  to  augment  the  research  aptitude  and 
technical  knowledge  based  approach  in  Selection.                                           
It is conducted two rounds:

Stage I- Individual Round 

•  Problem Solving Session

Time  duration  of  problem  solving  session  is  
10 mins and narration session is 18 mins approximately 
for a group of 8-9 candidates.

•  Narration Session

Panel  of  5-7  experts  observe  the  candidates  and 
assess them on psychological attributes, viz. practical 
knowledge  about  the  subject,  grasp,  convergent 
thinking and creativity.

Stage II- Group Discussion Round

•  Time  duration  of  group  discussion  round  is  20 
mins approximately for a group of 8-9 candidates.

•  During  the  group  discussion  round,  the  panel  of 
experts  observe  the  candidates  and  assess  them 
on  psychological  attributes  viz.  team  orientation, 
initiative, confidence and communication skills. 

18

MARCH-APRIL 2025

Features

•  The  tool  comprises  of  audio-visual  animated 
clips    related  to  subject  specific  case  studies 
describing  a  problem  statement  in  the  field  of 
Computer Science Engineering (CSE), Electronics 
and  Communication  Engineering  (ECE)  and 
Mechanical Engineering.

•  The high resolution animated clips with voice over 
are between 60-120 seconds in length and Indian 
accent has been used for background narration.

•  Instructions in audio-visual form for each round.

•  The tool can be used for assessment and selection 

of scientists in any R&D organization.

Screenshot of the Animated Audio-visual Clip

Major Achievements 

•  Three sets of PsyAT has been developed.

•  Manual for administration and guidelines for the 
Panel  of  Experts  to  assess  the  candidates  have 
been prepared.

•  Two Copyrights granted in 2024.

PSYCHOLOGICAL SCREENING 
TEST FOR SUBMARINERS

The  challenges  for  Submariners  are  numerous, 
including  extended  periods  of  isolation,  technical 
complexity  of  operating  under  extreme  conditions 
and  maintaining  mental  and  physical  resilience  in 
confined spaces. 

MARCH-APRIL 2025

19

Technology FocusVSDu¨ykWth Q¨dlBased  on  the  requirement  projected  by  the  
Indian  Navy,  DIPR  has  developed  Psychological 
Screening  Test  for  the  induction  of  submariners  in 
the submarine arm. 

After  preliminary  research  and  interactions  with 
subject  matter  experts,  Instructors  and  Sailors, 
specific  personality  attributes  required  by  the 
submariners were identified.

An  attempt  was  made  to  assess  affect  through 
Word Association Test (WAT) with objective scoring. 
It  was  based  on  the  findings  of  recent  researches 
which  highlight  that  both  positive  and  negative 
emotional  words  enhance  cognitive  processing. 
While negative stimuli may capture attention longer, 
both  emotional  types  facilitate  cognitive  processing 
in different contexts.

Features

•  A  bilingual  test  tapping  key  attributes  has  been 

developed.

•  Psychometric  properties  of  the  test  has  been 

established. 

•  User manual has been developed.

Major Achievements 

The psychological screening test was handed over 
to Directorate of Submarine Operations, Indian Navy 
in May 2022.

WORD ASSOCIATION TEST 
WITH OBJECTIVE SCORING FOR 
ASSESSMENT OF AFFECT 

Affect  is  a  broad  term  encompassing  emotions, 
moods,  preferences,  and  affective  dispositions. 
Positive  affective  traits  like  confidence,  optimism, 
and  negative  affective  traits  like  anger,  depression, 
and  anxiety  significantly  influence  an  individual's 
response to life events. 

Researches  are  being  carried  out  to  assess  the 
emotional  and  psychological  traits  necessary  for 
officers  in  dynamic  and  challenging  environments. 
The  Indian  Armed  Forces'  Officer  Selection  System 
is  in  place  for  over  seven  decades,  is  scientifically 
credible  and  regularly  reviewed  for  relevance  and 
effectiveness. 

In the recent past, research studies are being carried 
out  to  enhance  personality  testing  by  incorporating 
modern psychological tests across cognitive, affective 
and behavioural domains.

Features

•  The test provides insight about the predominance 
of  positive  or  negative  affective  dimension  of  an 
individual’s personality. 

•  Eight  lists  comprising  positive,  negative  and 

neutral words.

•  Words are matched on arousal, valence, familiarity, 

frequency and word structure.

•  Scoring  involves  assigning  weightage  to  first, 
second and third response to positive, negative and 
neutral  words.  Higher  the  overall  score  indicates 
higher positive affect.

•  Reliability and Validity is established. 

Major Achievements

•  WAT for assessment of affect with objective scoring 

has been developed.

•  The test is likely to aid in the selection process for 

defense services and general population.

DEVELOPMENT OF GENDER FAIR 
THEMATIC APPERCEPTION TEST 
FOR ARMED FORCES OFFICERS 
SELECTION SYSTEM

In the recent years, the Indian Armed Forces have 
laid  greater  emphasis  on  induction  of  women  at  all 
levels  and  fields  within  the  Forces.  In  this  regard, 
induction of women at NDA and training of male and 
female cadets being held together at Pre-Commission 
Training Academies across the three Services, a need 
was felt by the Users to hold mixed batch testing to 
test male and female candidates at Services Selection 

MARCH-APRIL 2025

19

18

MARCH-APRIL 2025

VSDu¨ykWth Q¨dlTechnology FocusBoards (SSB) together to bring in parity even at the 
selection  stage.  The  research  was  initiated  by  DIPR 
to  explore  the  feasibility  of  Gender  Fair  Test  for 
conducting mixed batch testing. 

complex  issues.  The  training  module  developed  by 
DIPR  facilitates  in  optimally  utilising  higher-order 
thinking  skills  like  critical  thinking  for  operational 
effectiveness in the military environment. 

Features

Features

•  A  projective  test  designed  for  17  to  25  years  old 

Training  module  consists  of  evidence-based 

males and females. 

•  Psychometric properties have been established for 

the test.

•  The  methodology  developed  also  contributes 
to  the  scientific  literature  on  psychometric  test 
development. 

activities related to 

•  Attention

•  Working memory

•  Critical thinking 

•  Mindfulness

Sample Stimulus

Major Achievements

First Gender Fair TAT has been developed in the 

Indian context.

TRAINING MODULE FOR 
COGNITIVE ENHANCEMENT: 
CRITICAL THINKING

Technical Workbooks

Critical thinking empowers individuals to analyse, 
evaluate  and  synthesize  information  in  a  thoughtful 
and  systematic  way.  It  enables  people  to  approach 
problems  with  a  clear,  logical  mindset,  making 
it  easier  to  make  informed  decisions  and  solve 

Major Achievements

•  Handed over to Brig Military Training in 2019.

•  Inclusion  of  Critical  thinking  training  in  the 

curriculum of NCO Academy.

Editors are thankful to Dr Arunima Gupta, Sc 'G' & Director, DIPR; Dr Nishi Misra, Sc 'G',  
Additional Director; All Group Heads and other team members of DIPR for facilitating  
the write-up for this issue of Technology Focus. 

MslhMkWd }kjk izdkf'kr

Published by DESIDOC

RNI No. 55787/93

Technology FocusVSDu¨ykWth Q¨dl