Solicitation of EOI from Industries seeking ToT 
for 
Air droppable Survival and Rescue Kit (SARK) 

Introduction 
ADRDE,  a  pioneer  in  the  field  of  Aerial  Delivery  Systems,  has  designed  and  developed  the  Air 
droppable  Survival  and  Rescue  Kit  (SARK)  for  quick  emergency  rescue  of  a  group  of  persons  in 
distress over sea. 

lines 

retrieval 

AIM 
To find suitable industry(ies) partners for required bulk production of  SARK to address the existing 
and  futuristic  product  demands  of  the  Armed  Forces.  DRDO  will  transfer  the  technology  to  the 
industry for bulk production. 
System description 
The SARK system consists of parachute system, light weight 
inflatable life raft and essential survival accessories for 8 to 
10  persons.  The  parachute  system  consists  of  auxiliary 
parachute,  extractor  parachute, 
(self-
buoyant),  stabilizer  parachute  and  terminal  deceleration 
parachute.  The  complete  system  is  packed  inside  flexible 
container  made  out  of  fire-retardant  high  gsm  PVC  fabric. 
The packed system is designed to be attached and dropped 
from  BRU  of  P8I  aircraft.  After  airdrop,  sequential 
leading  to  the  final 
deployment  of  parachute  occurs 
deployment  of  terminal  descent  parachute.  The  life  raft 
inflation  initiates  mid-air  due  to  the  force  exerted  by  the 
terminal  descent  parachute  and  activation  of  light  weight 
carbon dioxide  cylinder inflation within 60  sec of  initiation. 
The inflated life raft is ready to be boarded by the survivors 
over  sea  who  can  access  it  using  long  retrieval  lines 
attached  with  it.  The  essential  survival  accessories  for  10 
persons are packed and attached to the life raft.  
The  parachute  system  is  certified  by  CEMILAC  and  life  raft  complies  design  and  performance 
requirements in line with ITSO-C70a standards.  
The  Survival  accessories  consists  of  (i)  Utility  tools:  safety  knife,  repair  kit,  whistle,  emergency 
signalling mirror, sea marker dye, compass, flare day and night, strobe light, manual bellows, fishing 
kit  (ii) Medical kits:  First aid  kit, lipstick, anti-chap, sunburn cream, (iii) Edible items: Food packets, 
Emergency  Drinking  water, Water  storage  bag,  (iv) Wearables: Tower, gloves,  watch,  cap,  casualty 
blanket. 

1)  Interested companies/industries are requested to apply against this EoI to following 

address:- 

To, 

Director 
Aerial Delivery Research & Development Establishment (ADRDE) 
DRDO, Govt. of India, Ministry of Defence 
Post Box No.51, Station Road , Agra Cant -282001 
Email-director.adrde@gov.in 

2)  A copy of interest may be sent to the following address without any attachment:- 

 
 
The Director 
Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM) 
Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110 011 
Email-diitm[dot]hqr[at]gov[dot]in 

List of Support documents to be attached with EoI 

(a) Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian Companies Act, 
as amended time to time) 

(b) Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any. 

(c) Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.  

(d) Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period  

(e)  Details  of  shareholding/ownership  pattern  especially  foreign  partners/shareholders,  foreign 
employees,  directors,  etc.  The  company  must  adhere  to  the  prevailing  Govt  of  India  policies  and 
regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable.  

(f) Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  

(g) Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company. 

(h) Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel. 

(i) Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of Defence orders, 
Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).  

(j)  Availability  of  adequate  infrastructure  (List  of  machines  and  their  production  capacities)  and 
technical expertise.  

(k) List of Testing and Support equipment’s 

(l) ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification  

(m) Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any) 

(n) Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept attendant financial and 
commercial risks.  

(o)  Capacity/capability  to  market  the  product  through  the  marketing  network,  sales  and  service 
network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 

(p)  PESO  and  DPIIT  license  for  explosive  handling  if  ToT  is  for  high  energy  Material,  explosives, 
propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc.  

(q) Under taking form company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, Independent Directors, non-
executive Directors, Key management personnel are involved in any corrupt practices, unfair means 
and illegal activities. 

(r) Details of the industrials license for defence manufacturing be provided by the industry seeking 
ToTs. 

 
 
