VSHORADS Propellant for Booster and Sustainer

VSHORADS propulsion system has a Main Motor (MM) which includes Booster and Sustainer
grain in a cartridge loaded configuration. Technology has been developed with high burn rate
propellant   for   booster   and   low   burn   rate   propellant   for   sustainer   with   cartridge   loaded
properties. High strength rubber insulation has been developed for booster and sustainer. With
the   developed   propellant   and   insulation   systems   motors   were   processed   and   tested   at
different temperature conditions and met all the mission requirements.

The technology is now ready for transfer (both Booster and  Sustainer ) for mass production.

1.

Interested   Companies/industries   are   requested   to   apply   against   this   EoI   to   the
following address:-

To, 
The Director,
High Energy Materials Research  Laboratory (HEMRL)
Sutarwadi, Pune-411 021
Email- director.hemrl@gov.in

2. 

A copy of interest may be sent to the following address without any attachment:-

To, 
The Director, 
Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM)
Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110 011
Email-diitm.hqr@gov.in

List of Support documents to be attached with EoI:-

(a) 

Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian  Companies
Act, as amended time to time).

(b) 

Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.

(c) 

Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.

(d) 

Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period.

(e) 

Details   of   shareholding/ownership   pattern   especially   foreign   partners/shareholders,   foreign  
employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt of India policies  
and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)/ DIPP norms as applicable.

(f) 

Annual budget for R&D during last three years.

(g) 

Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company.

(h) 

Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel.

(i) 

Record   of   past   performance   (e.g.,   Supply   orders   executed   against   of   Ministry   of
Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).

 
 
(j) 

Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their production capacities) and  
technical expertise.

(k) 

List of Testing and Support equipments.

(l) 

ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification.

(m) 

Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any).

(n) 

(o) 

(p) 

(q) 

(r) 

Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept
attendant financial and commercial risks.

Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales  and   service  
network, reliability to maintain confidentiality.

PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy  Material,
explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc.

Under taking form company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, Independent Directors,  
non-executive Directors, Key management  personnel   are   involved   in   any   corrupt   practices,  
unfair means and illegal activities.

Details of the industries license for Defence manufacturing be provided by the industry seeking 
ToTs.

 
