Description of Technology:

MCHEW-4 Warhead System

Technology for MCHEW-4 Warhead System comprising   hardware and high explosive filling
has been developed by DRDO to neutralize different targets. The technology include three
type of warheads developed to defeat targets by fragmentation and blast effects. Warhead
hardware and high performance explosive composition manufacturing and casting technique
to meet the  lethality requirement and operational  requirements have been developed. The
design   and   development   of   the   warheads   and   explosive   related     technologies   has   been
completed successfully.

Application Areas:

Warhead configurations, high explosive compositions and their filing techniques have been
designed and developed by DRDO for use in missile system designed to destroy a variety of
targets and intended to be used by Indian Armed Forces.

The developed technology has met the performance requirements. The sources of supply of
warhead   hardware   and   raw   materials   for   the   filling   of   warhead   system   are   available
indigenously.

1.

Interested   Companies/industries   are   requested   to   apply   against   this   EoI   to   the
following address:-

To, 
The Director,
High Energy Materials Research  Laboratory (HEMRL)
Sutarwadi, Pune-411 021
Email- director.hemrl@gov.in

2. 

A copy of interest may be sent to the following address without any attachment:-

To, 
The Director, 
Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM)
Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110 011
Email-diitm.hqr@gov.in

List of Support documents to be attached with EoI:-

(a)  Memorandum   and   Articles   of   Association   (Should   be   incorporated   as   per   Indian  

Companies  Act, as amended time to time).

(b) 

Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.

(c) 

Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.

(d) 

Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period.

(e) 

Details   of   shareholding/ownership   pattern   especially   foreign   partners/shareholders,  
foreign employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt of 
India policies and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)/ DIPP norms  as
applicable.

(f) 

Annual budget for R&D during last three years.

(g) 

Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company.

(h) 

Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel.

(i) 

(j) 

Record   of   past   performance   (e.g.,   Supply   orders   executed   against   of   Ministry   of  
Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).

Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their production capacities) 
and 

technical expertise.

(k) 

List of Testing and Support equipments.

(l) 

ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification.

(m)  Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any).

(n) 

(o) 

(p) 

(q) 

Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept
attendant financial and commercial risks.

Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales  and
service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality.

PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy  Material,
explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc.

Under   taking   form   company   seeking   ToT   that   none   of   its   Directors,   Independent  
Directors, non-executive Directors, Key management personnel are involved in any  
corrupt practices, unfair means and illegal activities.

(r) 

Details of the industries license for Defence manufacturing be provided by the industry 
seeking ToTs.

 
 
