ADVANCED RIOT PROTECTION SUIT 

Recent  incidences  of  extensive  use  of  small  arms  in  mob  situations  motivated  us  to 
develop  a  cost  effect  body  protection  gear.  The  developed  ‘Advanced  Riot  Protection  Suit 
(Level-IIIA  protection)”  is  capable  to  provide  additional  protection  against  soft  ballistic  for 
handling  any  type  of  riot  situation  without 
losing life of security personnel.  

It is a modular and formidable impact 
resistant  full  body  suit  providing  complete 
safety  to  the  police  and  paramilitary  forces 
during  riots,  civil  unrest  and  mob  situations 
in  low  intensity  conflicts.  It  helps  to  absorb 
the  impact/shock  load  from  stone  or  any 
other  hard  object  like  baton  etc.  in  riot 
condition.    This  is  used  to  protect  chest, 
shoulder,  back,  thigh,  groin  and  pelvis. 
Additionally,  it  also  safe  guards  the  vital 
organs  of  security  personal  against  9  x  19 
mm ammunitions.  

Advanced Riot Protection 
Suit 

It is composed of 2 set of layers system: outer soft armour panels, both at the front and 
back, plus shock-absorbing layer. The outer most set of layer of front, back and groin parts are 
made of soft ballistic layers providing extensive protection and resistance to the to the 9x19 mm 
ammunition.  These  parts  are  snug  fit  to  the  body  and  provide  maximum  protection  to  torso  of 
body.  The  inner  most  set  of  layer  of  front  and  back  panels  are  made  of  shock  absorbing 
materials. The outermost of both front and back panels are supported by hard engineering plastic 
materials. Other part of the protection suit is made of sandwich structure of engineering plastic 
materials and shock absorbing materials. The inner material is soft to resist injury and minimize 
blunt  trauma.  Besides  ballistic  protection,  engineering  plastic  made  parts  covers  shoulders, 
biceps, forearm and elbow; these protectors are composed of hard shell with adjusted inner pad, 
which is  covered with  lining  and provides protection from  stone, and batons etc. Additionally, 
different parts of body protector are attached with velcro to provide firm griping. The entire suit 
is designed ergonomically which provides ease of movement to the body's joint.  

Important Features: 

  Ergonomic and snug fit modular design  
  Light weight: 6 kg 
  Complete 3600 protection > 1.5 m² 
  Enhanced level of protection Stone, Baton , Knife ammunition (Level IIIA protection, 

front, back & groin parts) 

Page 1 of 3 

 
 
 
 
Interested  Industries  are  requested  to  forward  their  Expression  of  Interest  (EoI)  to  Director 
DMSRDE, Kanpur (with attachments of supporting documents) with a copy of Director DIITM, 
DRDO HQ (without attachment) on following address:- 

To, 
Director 
Defence Materials and Stores Research & Development Establishment (DMSRDE) 
DRDO, Ministry of Defence, Government of India 
PO DMSRDE, GT Road, 
Kanpur-208013 
Phone : (0512) 2451759-78 
Fax : 0512-2450404/ 2404774 

E-mail ID : director[dot]dmsrde[at]gov[dot]in 

Copy to 

Director 
Directorate of Industry Interface & technology Management (DIITM) 
Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, DRDO HQrs, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110011 
Phone: 011-23013209/23015291 
Fax: 011-23793008 

Email: diitm[dot]hqr[at]gov]dot]in 

List of Support documents to be attached with EoI  

a)  Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian Companies 

Act, as amended time to time)  

b)  Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.  

c)  Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.  

d) 

Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period  

e)  Details of shareholding/ownership pattern especially foreign partners/ shareholders, foreign 
employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt of India policies 
and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable.  

f)  Annual budget for R&D during last three years.   

g)  Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company.  

h)  Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel.  

i)  Record  of  past  performance  (e.g.,  Supply  orders  executed  against  of  Ministry  of  Defence 

orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).  

j)  Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their production capacities) and 

technical expertise. 

k)  List of Testing and Support equipment’s  

l) 

ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification  

Page 2 of 3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
m)  Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any)  

n)  Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept attendant financial 

and commercial risks.  

o)  Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales and service 

network, reliability to maintain confidentiality.  

p)  PESO  and  DPIIT  license  for  explosive  handling  if  ToT  is  for  high  energy  Material, 

explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc (if applicable).  

q)  Under taking form company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, Independent Directors, 
non-executive Directors, Key management personnel are involved in any corrupt practices, 
unfair means and illegal activities.  

r)  Details  of  the  industrials  license  for  defence  manufacturing  be  provided  by  the  industry 

seeking ToTs. 

Page 3 of 3 

 
 
 
