Propellant processing for P-394 Motor

HEMRL   has   designed   and   successfully   developed   composite   propellant   processing
technology  and its casting for  P-394 rocket motor. The developed composite propellant
has performed successfully as per requirement in static and flight trials. A number of tests
have  been carried out to evaluate its performance and reliability w.r.t ballistic, physical,
mechanical and interface properties at different temperatures from -20o C to +50o C.

Currently, there is a significant requirement of P-394 rocket motors. Since the requirement
of  these   rocket  motors  is  more   than   the  in-house   production   capacity,   it  is  decided   to
source these rocket motors from a suitable production agency established through ToT
route for the supply as per the requirements.

The composite propellant processing technology developed by HEMRL is fully matured
and now ready for productionisation in private sector manufacturing agencies.

1.

Interested   Companies/industries   are   requested   to   apply   against   this   EoI   to   the
following address:-

To, 
The Director,
High Energy Materials Research  Laboratory (HEMRL)
Sutarwadi, Pune-411 021
Email- director.hemrl@gov.in

2. 

A copy of interest may be sent to the following address without any attachment:-

To, 
The Director, 
Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM)
Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110 011
Email-diitm.hqr@gov.in

List of Support documents to be attached with EoI:-

(a)  Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian  

Companies  Act, as amended time to time).

(b) 

Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.

(c) 

Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.

(d) 

Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period.

Details of shareholding/ownership pattern especially foreign partners/shareholders, 
foreign employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt

(e) 

of 

India policies and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)/ DIPP norms  as
applicable.

(f) 

Annual budget for R&D during last three years.

(g) 

Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company.

(h) 

Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel.

(i) 

(j) 

Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of  
Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).

Availability   of   adequate   infrastructure   (List   of   machines   and   their   production  
capacities)  and 

technical expertise.

(k) 

List of Testing and Support equipments.

(l) 

ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification.

(m)  Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any).

(n) 

(o) 

(p) 

(q) 

Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept
attendant financial and commercial risks.

Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales  and
service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality.

PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy  Material,
explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc.

Under taking form company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, Independent  
Directors, non-executive Directors, Key management personnel are involved in any 
corrupt practices, unfair means and illegal activities.

(r) 

Details  of   the   industries  license   for   Defence   manufacturing   be   provided   by   the  
industry seeking ToTs.

 
