High Explosive Compositions & their filling in warhead of  MCHEW-6

High explosive technology  for  Pre-formed and Penetration cum Blast (PF & PCB) warhead
of bomb to defeat different targets has been developed by DRDO. Exhaustive studies and
experimentations   were   carried   out   to   finalise   the   high   explosive   compositions   and
manufacturing technologies to realise the desired performance and sensitivity characterstics
of   different   class   of   warheads.   The   high   explosive   systems   to   meet   the   requirement   of
explosive   train   have   been   sucessfully     developed.   The   technology   of   high   explosive
compositions and their filling in the warheads of MCHEW-6 has been developed and met all
the QR. The technology is ready for production and envisages application of both melt -cast
and press technology.

Application of Area:

The technology of High explosive compositions and their filling in the warhead of MCHEW-6
is meant to manufacture explosive charges for warhead application.

The warhead employing the developed technology has met the performance requirements
and   it  at  par  with   global  state  of  art.  All   the   raw   materials  and   machineries  required   for
manufacture of warhead are available indigenously.

1.

Interested   Companies/industries   are   requested   to   apply   against   this   EoI   to   the
following address:-

To, 
The Director,
High Energy Materials Research  Laboratory (HEMRL)
Sutarwadi, Pune-411 021
Email- director.hemrl@gov.in

2. 

A copy of interest may be sent to the following address without any attachment:-

To, 
The Director, 
Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM)
Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110 011
Email-diitm.hqr@gov.in

List of Support documents to be attached with EoI:-

(a)  Memorandum   and  Articles   of  Association   (Should   be   incorporated   as   per   Indian  

Companies  Act, as amended time to time).

(b) 

Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.

(c) 

Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.

(d) 

Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period.

(e) 

Details of shareholding/ownership pattern especially foreign partners/shareholders,  
foreign employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt of 
India policies and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)/ DIPP norms  as
applicable.

(f) 

Annual budget for R&D during last three years.

(g) 

Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company.

(h) 

Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel.

(i) 

(j) 

Record   of   past   performance   (e.g.,   Supply   orders   executed   against   of   Ministry   of  
Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).

Availability   of   adequate   infrastructure   (List   of   machines   and   their   production  
capacities)  and 

technical expertise.

(k) 

List of Testing and Support equipments.

(l) 

ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification.

(m)  Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any).

(n) 

(o) 

(p) 

(q) 

Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept
attendant financial and commercial risks.

Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales  and  
service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality.

PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy  Material,
explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc.

Under   taking   form   company   seeking  ToT  that   none   of   its   Directors,   Independent  
Directors, non-executive Directors, Key management personnel are involved in any  
corrupt practices, unfair means and illegal activities.

(r) 

Details   of   the   industries   license   for   Defence   manufacturing   be   provided   by   the  
industry seeking ToTs.

 
