Directorate  of  Industry  Interface  &  Technology  Management 
DRDO  Bhawan,  Rajaji  Marg 
New  Delhi-110011

DRD 

Policy  for 

Transfer  of  Technology 

2025 

Directorate  of  Industry  Interface  &  Technology  Management 

DRDO  Headquarters,  DRDO  Bhawan 

Rajaji  Marg 

New  Delhi-110011

Terry  far 
RAJNATH  SINGH 

wel  Hat 
AaRd 
DEFENCE  MINISTER 
INDIA 

MESSAGE 

has 

Today, 

warfare 

technology 

conventional 

into 
transformed 
unconventional  warfare.  With  the  rapid  changes  in  modern-day  warfare, 
critical 
there  is  requirement  of  developing  indigenous  technologies  in 
a  requirement  of  a  robust  mechanism  for 
domains  and  further,  there  is 
seamless  transfer  of  these  technologies  from  labs’  cradle  to  industrial  floor. 
the  defence  sector  has  witnessed  success  through 
Self-Reliance  in 
indigenous  projects  such  as  Light  Combat  Aircraft  Tejas,  Main  Battle  Tank 
Arjun  and  DRDO  Missile  programmes. 

In  this  context,  the  DRDO  Policy  for  Transfer  of  Technology  (ToT)  is  a 
step  in  the  right  direction  to  further  enable  Indian  defence  industry  to  absorb 
indigenously  developed  technologies  at  a  faster  pace  and  deliver  turnkey 
weapons-systems,  platforms  and  support  systems  to  our  armed  forces. 

It  gives  me  immense  pleasure  to  release  the  “DRDO  Policy  for  ToT”. 
amomentous  step,  which  will  reinforce  the  foundation  of  “Make  in  India” 
nation’s  defence 

the  World”,  thereby  enhancing  the 

It  is 
and  “Make  for 
preparedness. 

‘Jai  Hind’ 

~ 

New  Delhi 
06  Feb,  2025 

7 

(yar  HE. 

(Rajnath  Singh) 

Office  :  Room  No.  104,  Ministry  of  Defence,  South  Block,  New  Delhi-110011 
Tel.  :  +91  11  23012286,  +91  11  23019030,  Fax  :  +91  11  23015403 
E-mail  :  rmmo@mod.nic.in

Waa  Vs 
SANJAY  SETH 

Fala 3 
MESSAGE 

> 
—— 

Ral  Wer  Wat 
FARA  Unie 
Minister  of  State  for  Defence 
Government  of  India 

Government  of  India  has  an  unwavering  resolve  to  create  a  future-ready 
defence  sector  in  the  country,  imbued  with  seamless  situational  awareness, 
flexibility  at  strategic  and  tactical  levels,  resilience,  agility  and  integration  with 
futuristic  technologies. 

technologies 

The  present  geopolitical  scenario  has  highlighted  the  importance  of 
indigenous 
Defence  —  sector. 
for 
conceptualisation  and  development,  coupled  with  the  expeditious  transfer  of 
technology  to  Indian  industry  for  production  and  delivery  of  platforms  and 
systems  to  the  armed  forces,  is  therefore  key  to  Aatmanirbhar  Bharat  in 
defence  production. 

In-house 

R&D 

in 

It  is  gratifying  to  see  that  DRDO  has  developed  a  wide  range  of  crucial 
indigenous  defence  technologies  across  a  multitude  of  disciplines  spanning 
Aerospace,  Armament,  Electronics,  Missiles,  Soldier  support,  Naval  systems 
and  Materials.  Guided  by  continuously  evolving  policies,  the  transfer  of  these 
technologies  to 
to 
induction  of  premier  weapons  systems  in  the  Services. 

has  gathered  momentum,  leading 

industries 

Indian 

in 

The  revised  ‘DRDO  Policy  for  Transfer  of  Technology’  is  an  important 
step  manifesting 
increased  DRDO’s  commitment  to 
Indian  defence 
industries,  affording  additional  impetus  to  the  transfer  of  knowledge  base.  It  is 
incumbent  upon  the  industries  to  take  advantage  of  the  DRDO’s  initiative  and 
come  forward  to  garner  technological  knowledge  and  know-how,  leading  to 
strengthening  of  their  own  R&D  efforts,  in  addition  to  production. 

|  congratulate  DRDO  for  their  effort  in  delivering  this  important  policy  and 
am  sanguine  that  the  industries  will  benefit  from  it,  in  turn  boosting  the  overall 
national  preparedness. 

Vey  Ret 

(Sanjay  Seth) 

Si.  aR  A.  ora 
Dr.  Samir  V.  Kamat 

oo 

vata,  ven  argetara  ae  fener  fear 
wd 
oa,  Saris 
Secretary,  Department  of  Defence  R&D 

FRA  GR 
Government of  India 

& 
Chairman,  DRDO 

x  ee  ren ofr 

MESSAGE 

DRDO  is  the  bastion  of  the  nation  for  Atmanirbharta  in  defence  technologies  and  continuously  strives 

for  expeditious  propagation  of  developed  technologies  to  Indian  industries  to  metamorphose  into  Systems, 

articles  and  platforms.  The  efforts  of  DRDO  in  the  years  till  now  have  led  to  the  exponential  growth  of  the  Indian 

defence  manufacturing  base  and  have  also  fostered  a  clearly  evident  will  to  participate  in  the  development  and 

production  of  technology  indigenously. 

Having  engendered  the  aspirations  of  a  segment  of  Indian  industries  in  this  domain,  DRDO  now  aims  to 

further 

attract 

and  encourage  wider 

participation 

of 

industries  towards  absorbing  DRDO  developed 

technologies.  The  lessons  learnt  from  the  previous  editions/iterations  of  the  Policy  for  Transfer  of  Technology, 

coupled  with  the  exponential  increase  in  the  number  of  MSEs  and  Start-ups  and  evolving  industrial  capability, 

guided  the  process  of  introspection  and  review  of  DRDO  Policy  for  Transfer  of  Technology. 

This  edition  is  the  outcome  of  exhaustive  consultations  with  DRDO  laboratories,  Industry  chambers  and 

government  departments  and  incorporates  Industry-friendly  procedures  and  automation  of  internal  processes 

for  ToT,  thereby  cutting  down  the  timelines  for  transfer  of  technology  to  industries  by  DRDO.  This  is  but  another 

step  in  the  continuously  evolving  symbiotic  relationship  between  DRDO  and  the  Indian  Industrial  eco-system. 

|  congratulate  DIITM  team  for  their  effort  in  formulating  this  policy  for  simplification  of  Transfer  of 

Technology.  |  am  sure  that  this  effort  will  further  stimulate  industries  to  take  on  technologies  developed  by 
DRDO  and  contribute  to  self-reliance  in  the  country,  while  placing  India  on  the  global  manufacturing  map. 

|  ee 

(Dr.  Samir  V.  Kamat) 

Yael  FATS,  Va  STRUM  ce  fAwra  faut,  Somewisi  waa,  ag  feet-110011 
Ministry  of  Defence,  Department  of  Defence  R&D,  DRDO  Bhawan,  Rajaji  Marg,  New  Delhi-110011 
qeara/Phone  :  011-23011519,  23014350  weara/Fax  :011-  23018216  ¥Ae/E-mail  :  secydrdo@gov.in 

SI.  afear  aifrp 

q  - 
Heimeere  (ff  wt  va  wa  ong) 

; 

Dr.  Chandrika  Kaushik 
silat’  SCIENTIST 

aaa 

a. 
Ceo  Fw 

Ren  Aaa 
MINISTRY  OF  DEFENCE 
Yen  sre  den  feera  wea 
DEFENCE  RESEARCH  &  DEVELOPMENT  ORGANISATION 

DIRECTOR  GENERAL  (PC  & 

SI) 

4

wen  were  a  ae 

" 

MESSAGE 

DRDO  is  entrusted  with  role  of  developing  technologies  that  can  be  produced  into 
tangible  systems  crucial 
the  operational  preparedness  of  our  armed  forces. 

for 

Production 

is 

the 

last-mile 

in 

this  vigorous  process  and 

calls 

for 

a 

relentless 

involvement  of 

country, 
encouraging,  guiding  and  supporting  industry  partners  to  keep  up  with  the  constantly 

the  manufacturing  eco-system  of 

the  DRDO  with 

the 

evolving  dynamics  of  defence  production. 

The  present  edition  of  DRDO  Policy  for  Transfer  of  Technology  is  an  enabler  for  Indian 
industries  and  manufacturing  eco-system,  and 
incorporates  relevant  Government 
policies  and  compliances  viz  Industrial  License  and  Biological  Diversity  Act  et  al.  The 
document  also  guides  the  industries  on  security  measures  to  protect  the  ‘Know  How’ 
garnered  from  DRDO  and  the  classification  of  Transfer  of  Technology  Documents.  The 
essential  aspect  of  Technology  Absorption  by 

also  brought  out 

industry 

is 

for 

information  of  industries  at  the  outset. 

|  commend  the  efforts  of  Director,  DIITM  and  his  team  for  their  insightful  analysis, 
inclusive  consultations  and  grasp  of  policies  and  industry  dynamics,  the  outcome  of 
which  is  this  comprehensive  policy.  |  am  sure  that  this  will  go  a  long  way  in  increasing 
defence  manufacturing  capabilities. 

inch 

401,  S.ome.  Sst.  was,  worst  art,  ag  feee-110011,  qxura  :  (#1)  23013220  Baa  :  91-11-23017882 
401,  DRDO  BHAWAN,  RAJAJI  MARG,  NEW  DELHI-110011.  TELE.:  (O)  23013220,  FAX  :  91-11-23017882 

 
sreny  arent 
Presa 
ver  wie  vd  srenfat  sauna  eens 
ARUN  CHAUDHARY 
Director 
Industry  Interface  and  Technology  Management 

Ra  SMG  cen  flora  Wiss 
Defence  Research  &  Development  Organisation 
UNA  BGR,  Wal  HATTA 
Government  of  India,  Ministry  of  Defence 
wart  A.  447,  a  fait, 
Room  No.  447,  'B',  Wing, 
S  ar  HS  att  waa,  ag  feeeh-110011 
BRE  Bhawan;  New  Belhi-119011 

DIITM  is  entrusted  with  role  of  the  pivotal  charter  of  transferring  DRDO  developed 
technology  to  industry  partners  and  is  actively  engaged  with  Industries  and  production 
partners  to  facilitate  Ease  of  Doing  Business  and  garner  feedback  to  evolve  pro-industry 
policies  and  procedures. 

During  the  implementation  of  the  DRDO  Policy  and  Procedures  for  Transfer  of 
Technology-  2019,  DIITM  has  been  engaged  in  continuous  introspection  and  evaluation  of 
processes  for  the  transfer  of  technology.  Proactive  interaction  with  Users,  Industries, 
coupled  with  invaluable  counsel  from  Directors  General  and  Directors  of  DRDO, 
Additional  Financial  Advisor  (R&D)  &  JS  and  IFA  (R&D),  has  led  to  this  edition  of  DRDO 
Policy  for  Transfer  of  Technology. 

It  introduces  various  industry-friendly  initiatives  and  incorporates  mechanisms  to  accelerate 
technology  transfer,  including  the  Industry  application-cum-assessment  form  and  revised 
templates  for  added  convenience  and  expeditious  processing.  In  addition,  enhanced 
Expression  of  Interest  (Eol)  features  and  value-added  information  have  been  provided  in 
the  public  domain  for  performance  of  due-diligence  by  Industries. 

This  policy  is  resonant  with  the  national  aim  of  Aatmanirbharta,  and  will  give  a  fillip  to  the 
trajectory  of  Indian  manufacturing  eco-system  with  the  faster  availability  of  indigenous 
technologies  to  them.  My  heartfelt  gratitude  and  appreciation  is  due  to  all  the  participants 
and  ‘Team  DIITM?”  in  this  journey,  whose  efforts  will  come  to  fruition  with  the  exponential 
growth  in  Industrial  base  and  strengthening  our  nation. 

ee 

ae 

Phone:  91-11-23013209,  23015291, 

Fax:  91-11-23793008,  e-mail:  diitm.hqr@gov.in,  achaudhary.hqr@gov.in 

DRDO/DIITM/ToT/Revision/Policy/99/D(R&D)/2025 
Government  of  India,  Ministry  of  Defence 
Deptt.  Defence  Research  &  Development 
New  Delhi-110011 
ok  Feb  2025 

To, 

Sir, 

The  Chairman 
Defence  Research  &  Development  Organisation 
Ministry  of  Defence, 
DRDO  Bhawan,  New  Delhi-110011 

Sub:  DRDO  Policy  for  Transfer  of  Technology  (2025) 

I 

to 

to 

am 

refer 

directed 

DRDO/DIITM/ToT/Policy/2019- 
GOI,  MoD  letter 
1/1328/D(R&D)/2019  dated  19  Aug  2019  and  to  convey  the  sanction  of  the  President  of  India  for 
promulgation  of  revised  “DRDO  Policy  for  Transfer  of  Technology  (2025)”  to  the  industry  to 
enable  them  to  manufacture  products  for  supply  to  Indian  Armed  Forces/  Para  Military/  State  Police 
etc.  or  for  sale  in  appropriate  commercial  market  within  India  or  Abroad  (copy  enclosed). 

No 

This 

letter 

supersedes 

DRDO/DIITM/ToT/Policy/2019- 
as 
1/1328/D(R&D)/2019  dated  19  Aug  2019  regarding  DRDO  Policy  for  Transfer  of  Technology. 
However,  the  existing  ToT  Procedures  promulgated  in  Oct  2019  will  continue  to  apply  for  procedural 
aspects  till  new  procedure  is  promulgated. 

letter 

GOI 

the 

No 

This  issues  with  the  concurrence  of JS  &  Addl  FA  (R&D)  vide  their  Dy  No.  437/JS  &  Addl  FA 

3. 
R&D  dated  04  Feb  2025. 

Yours  Faithfully, 

(Kishore  Kumar) 

(Under  Secretary  to  the  Govt  of  India) 

Tel:  011-23007525 

Encl:  as  stated  above 

Copy  signed  in  ink  to:- 

PCDA  (R&D),  RK  Puram,  New  Delhi 
DGADS,  L-II  Block,  Brassey  Avenue,  New  Delhi 

Copy  to:- 

Addl  FA(R&D),  DRDO  Bhawan  New  Delhi 
All  DGs 
All  Directors,  Lab/  Estts 
All  IFAs  (R&D) 
US  (R&D)

DRDO  Policy  for  Transfer  of  Technology  2025 

Table  of  Contents 

S.  No 

Title 

Page  No 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

45. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

Introduction 

Objective 

Scope 

Technology  Categorisation 

Legal  Agreements 

Transfer  of  Technology  Fees  &  Royalty 

Technical  Assessment  Committee  (TAC) 

Hand-Holding  Support  by  Laboratories 

Transfer  of  Technology  of  Defence  Products/  Items/  High  Energy 
Materials 

Technology  Absorption  (TA)  Certificate  to  Industry 

Renewal/  Extension  of  Licenses 

Extent  of  Government’s  March-In-Rights  Post-License/Sale 

Transfer  of  Technology  Involving  Usage  of  Biological  Resources 

Uniform  System  of  Item  Identification 

Transfer  of  Technology  of  Technologies  Developed  Under  Grant-In- 
Aid  Scheme 

Transfer  of  Technology  Involving  Sharing  of  Software  Source  Code 

Support  to  Micro,  Small  Enterprises  (MSEs)  and  Startups 

Exceptions,  Deviations  in  ToT  Policy 

1 

2 

2 

2 

5 

5 

10 

10 

41 

12 

12 

12 

13 

13 

44 

14 

15 

16

DRDO  Policy  for  Transfer  of  Technology 

Introduction 

1.1 

Defence  Research  and  Development  Organisation  (DRDO)  is  mandated  to 

develop  defence  technologies,  systems  and  products  that  are  required  for  Indian 

Armed  Forces.  DRDO  develops  defence  technologies  through  projects  executed 

by  a  network  of  laboratories.  These  laboratories  are  also  engaged  with  industries 

and  academia  for  research  &  development  and  production  through  various 

provisions 

like 

Development 

Contracts, 

Research 

Boards, 

Technology 

Development  Fund 

(TDF)  scheme,  Extramural  Research  and 

Grant-in-Aid 

schemes.  DRDO,  through  its  Research  &  Development  activities,  has  been 

developing  technologies  and  generating  Intellectual  Properties  (IPs).  Matured 

technologies  that  are  ready  for  production  are  transferred  to  Indian  Industries. 

DRDO  provides  the  relevant  ‘know-how’  in  the  form  of  Technology  Transfer 

Documents  (TTD)  and  hand  holding  support  to  Industry.  DRDO  also  provides  the 

freedom  to  industries  to  carry  out  value  addition  to  the  base  technology  in 

consultation  with  DRDO  to  improve  performance  or  economic  viability.  The 

transfer 

of  technology  by  DRDO  has  made  a 

significant 

contribution 

in 

enhancement  of  capabilities 

of 

Indian  Defence  Industry 

for  production 

of 

indigenous  systems. 

1.2 

Some  of  the  defence  technologies  developed  by  DRDO  also  have  utility  in  the 

civilian  market.  Such  technologies  are  transferred  to  the  industries  with  dual 

licensing  rights  of  supplying  to  defence  sector/  departments  of  GOI  and  also  to 

civil 

market. 

Thus, 

Transfer 

of  Technology 

(ToT) 

of  DRDO  developed 

technologies 

to 

Indian 

Industries 

contributes 

to 

self-reliance 

in 

defence 

technologies,  Industrial  Growth  and  National  Development. 

1.3 

‘DRDO 

Guidelines 

for 

ToT’ 

were 

issued 

vide 

Government 

letter 

No. 

DRDO/CCR&D(SI)/DI2TM/07/ToT/2108/D(R&D),  June  2015  followed  by  number 

of  amendments  issued 

thereafter 

by  way  of 

clarifications 

for 

simplifying 

procedural  aspects  to  facilitate  industry.  Revised  ‘DRDO  Policy  and  Procedures 

for 

Transfer 

of 

Technology’ 

were 

issued 

vide 

Government 

letter 

No 

DRDO/DIITM/TOT/POLICY/2019-1/1328/D(R&D)/2019 

dated 

19/08/2019. 

Page |  1

DRDO  Policy  for  Transfer  of  Technology  2025 

Thereafter,  based  on  the  experience  gained  from  administering  the  ToT  process 

for  the  last  five  years,  the  need  was  felt  to  further  refine  the  ToT  policy  in  order  to 

simplify  the  process,  reduce  compliances  burden  and  to  encourage  participation 

of  MSMEs  and  Startups  in  defence  sector  by  incorporating  necessary  changes 

in  the  existing  policy  framework.  ToT  procedures,  which  are  by  nature  subsidiary 

instructions  for  implementation  of  the  policy  are  elaborated  and  simplified  to 

increase  ease  of  doing  business. 

1.4 

Definition:  In  this  Policy,  the  term  ‘Technology’  has  been  used  for  any  design, 

know-how,  processes,  products,  system,  sub-systems,  components,  devices,  etc 

developed  whose  IP  right  or  know-how/  know-why  are  owned  by  DRDO. 

Objective 

The  objective  of  this  policy  is 

to  disseminate  DRDO  developed  technologies 

through  a  framework  that  ensures  seamless  and  faster  transfer  of  technology  to 

industry(ies),  promote  ease  of  doing  business,  provide  opportunities,  support  to 

industries,  especially  to  MSMEs  and  Startups  in  defence  manufacturing  and  dual 

use  technologies  to  give  required  impetus  to  increase  the  growth  and  capabilities 

of  defence  manufacturing  sector  for  achieving  self-reliance  in  defence  sector. 

Scope 

The  policy  will  cover  ToT  of  all  technologies  developed  by  DRDO  and  whose  IP 

rights 

or  know-how/  know-why  are  owned  by  DRDO,  for  manufacturing  by 

industry  and  supply  of  products  to  Indian  Armed  Forces/  Paramilitary  Forces/ 

State  Police  Force  etc.  and  for  sale  within  India  or  abroad. 

Technology  Categorisation 

DRDO  developed  technologies  are  categorised  as  Category  ‘A’  and  Category 

‘B’,  as  elaborated  below:  - 

i.  Category  ‘A’  —  These  technologies  are  military  technologies  and  are  referred 

to 

as  “MILTECH”.  These  are 

the  technologies  for  which  Indian  Armed 

Forces/  Ministry  of  Home  Affairs  (MHA)/  other  government  agencies  (both 

Page  |  2

DRDO  Policy  for  Transfer  of  Technology  2025 

Central  &  State)  are  the  only  end  users.  The  ToT  of  Category  ‘A’  technologies 

is  given  to  Indian  industries  for  manufacturing  in  India  and  sale  to  Indian 

Armed  Forces  and  other  Govt.  Agencies  (both  Central  &  State)  and  also 

supply  to  other  DcPP/  PA  /DP  /system  /subsystem  integrators  including 

supply  chain  industries,  subject  to  availability  of  End  User  Certificate. 

ii.  Category  ‘B’  —  These  technologies  are  the  Dual  use  technologies  (including 

spin-off  technologies)  that  are  not  security  sensitive  and  have  commercial 

potential  beyond  defence  applications.  The  ToT  of  Category  ‘B’  technologies 

is  given  for  manufacture  and  sale  in  appropriate  commercial  markets  within 

India  and/  or  abroad. 

4.2 

In  case  any  technology  under  Category  ‘A’ 

is  found  to  have  a  demand  in 

commercial  market  and  Industry  wants  license  for  use  in  commercial  markets, 

the  technology  valuation  of  ToT  fee  etc  will  be  carried  out  as  per  provisions  of 

Category  ‘B’.  Suitable  amendment  to  this  effect  will  be  made  in  the  Licensing 

Agreement  for  Transfer  of  Technology  (LAToT)  with  the  approval  of  Secretary 

DD  R&D  and  Chairman  DRDO. 

4.3  The  DRDO  developed  technologies  offered  for  ToT  will 

be  given  on  Non- 

Exclusive  basis  to  industries.  However,  the  number  of  licenses  could  be  limited 

for  the  following  reasons: 

i. 

Due  to  practical  limitations  on  the  support  that  could  be  given  by  the 

DRDO  Labs/Estt  for  technology  absorption  by  the  industries. 

ii. 

To  ensure  the  high  quality  of  manufacture. 

iii. 

Security  Sensitivity  of  Technology 

4.4 

Categorisation  Approving  Authority: 

The 

approval  for  categorisation 

of 

technologies  as  Category  ‘A’  or  Category  ‘B’  and  also  approval  of  the  number  of 

licenses  will  be  accorded  by  Director  General  (Production  Coordination  and 

Services  Interaction)  [DG(PC&SI)].  Any  special  condition  (like  recategorization, 

not 

publishing  technology  in 

public  domain, 

any 

addition 

or 

deletion 

of 

qualification  criterion 

for  ToT,  revocation  of  ToT,  etc.) 

will 

be  approved  by 

Secretary  DD  R&D  and  Chairman  DRDO. 

Page  |  3

DRDO  Policy  for  Transfer  of  Technology  2025 

4.5 

Definition  of  Indian  Industry:  ToT  will  be  carried  out  to  Indian  Industries  which 

could 

include 

incorporation/ 

ownership 

models 

as 

per  companies 

Act, 

Partnership  Firm,  Proprietorship  and  other  types  of  ownership  models  as  per 

relevant  laws,  complying  with, 

besides  other  regulations  in 

force 

and  the 

guidelines/  licensing  requirements  stipulated  by  the  Department  for  Promotion  of 

Industry  and  Internal  Trade  (DPIIT)  as  applicable.  For  products  not  requiring 

industrial  license,  an  Indian  entity  registered  under  the  relevant  Indian  Law  and 

complying  with  all  regulations  in  force  applicable  to  that  industry  will  be  classified 

as  an 

Indian 

industry.  Following  two  additional  conditions  will  apply  to  the 

definition  of  Indian  Industry. 

Ownership  by  Resident  Indian  Citizen(s).  Industry  is  considered  as  ‘Owned’ 

by  resident  Indian  citizen  if  more  than  fifty  percent  (50%)  of  the  capital  in 

it 

directly  or  beneficially  owned  by  resident  Indian  citizens  and  / 

or  Indian 

companies,  which  are  ultimately  owned  and  controlled  by  resident  Indian 

citizen.  This  implies  that  the  maximum  permitted  Foreign  Direct  Investment 

(FDI)  shall 

be  forty-nine  (49%).  No  pyramiding  of  FDI 

in 

Indian  holding 

companies  or  in  Indian  entities  subscribing  to  shares  or  securities  of  the 

applicant  company  shall  be  permitted.  Indirect  foreign  investment  shall  be 

accounted  for  in  counting  the  forty-nine  (49%)  FDI. 

Control  by  Resident  Indian  Citizens(s)  (As  defined  in  Companies  Act  2013): 

‘Control’  shall  include  the  include  the  right  to  appoint  majority  of  the  directors 

or  to  control  the  management  or  policy  decision  including  by  virtue  of  their 

shareholding  or  management  rights  or  shareholding  agreements  or  voting 

agreemenis. 

4.6 

Transfer  of  Technology  to  Foreign  Entity  or  to  an  Entity  with  Foreign 

Equity:  Category  ‘B’  are  spinoff  technologies  and  are  non-security  sensitive 

technologies  in  nature.  Only  category  ‘B’  technologies  are  allowed  to  be  given  to 

Foreign  Entity  or  to  an  Entity  with  Foreign  Equity.  The  business  potential  has  to 

be  seen  in  the  global  perspective.  However,  such  licenses  may  be  granted  to  a 

foreign  company  with  due  approval  of  Secretary  DD  R&D  and  Chairman  DRDO. 

4.7 

Export  of  products  /  systems  based  on  technologies  transferred  by  DRDO  will  be 

subject  to  a  prior  approval  as  per  prevailing  policy  of  Govt  of  India.  Secretary  DD 

Page  |  4

DRDO  Policy  for  Transfer  of  Technology  2025 

R&D  and  Chairman  DRDO  will  be  the  competent  authority  for  giving  ‘in-principle’ 

approval  for  expanding  the  licensing  region  for  ‘manufacturing  abroad’  by  Indian 

industry.  However,  in-principle  approval  for  manufacturing  abroad  is  subject  to 

final  export  clearance  by  Govt  of  India. 

Legal  Agreements 

During  the  process  of  Transfer  of  Technology,  several  Agreements  are  to  be 

entered  between  DRDO  and  Industry. 

If  an  Industry  is  interested  in  getting 

details 

about 

the 

technology 

under 

transfer 

for 

their 

‘comprehensive 

understanding’  before  obtaining  ToT,  DRDO  Lab/Estt  may  do  so  by  entering 

/signing 

a  Confidentiality  and  Non-disclosure  Agreement  (CNDA)  with 

interested  Industries,  before  exchanging  any  confidential  information. 

Another 

agreement  is  the  Material  Transfer  Agreement  (MTA),  DRDO  Lab/  Estt  can 

transfer  relevant  materials/  products  to  the  industry,  on  returnable  basis  so  that 

industry  can  study  and  assess  the  nature  of  technology  to  decide  whether 

Industry  want  to 

proceed  with  ToT  or  otherwise, 

under  this  agreement. 

Licensing  Agreement  for  Transfer  of  Technology  (LAToT)  is 

entered 

between  DRDO  and  the  recipient  industry  where  all  relevant  clauses  for  financial 

arrangement,  Licensing  regions,  ToT  &  Royalty  fee,  period  of  validity,  hand- 

holding  support  required,  arbitration  clauses,  license  revocation  clause,  etc  are 

covered.  The  period  of  validity  of  LAToT  will  be  as  per  approved  Terms  and 

Conditions  for  ToT.  However,  in  general  maximum  period  of  validity  of  LAToT 

will  be  10  years.  ToT  holder  may  approach  DRDO  before  expiry  for  renewal  of 

LATOoT. 

Transfer  of  Technology  Fee  and  Royalty 

For  Category  ‘A’  technologies  the  ToT  Fees  shall  be  estimated/  charged  as 

follows  - 

i) 

In  Category  ‘A’  cases,  ToT  Fees  will  not  be  charged  from  the  following 

industry(s)  for  ToT  of  the 

particular  technology  for  which  industry  is 

selected  following  due  process:  - 

Page  |  5

DRDO  Policy  for  Transfer  of  Technology  2025 

Development  Cum  Production  Partner  /  Production  Agency:  For 

Development  cum  Production  Partner  (DcPP)/  Production  Agency 

(PA)  selected  for  the  system/  technology  as  per  DcPP  guidelines  of 

DRDO  vide  no.  DISB/DPP/27656/P-1/Para-72  dated  15  March  2019, 

as  amended. 

b) 

DRDO  Development  Partner: 

Industries  which 

are  engaged  in 

development  efforts 

of  DRDO  for  the  system/  technology  through 

Development  Contracts  as  per  provision  under  chapter  12 

of  PM 

2020,  as  amended. 

ii)  For  all  cases  other  than  these  mentioned  at  Para  6.1 

(i)  above,  ToT  Fees 

(excluding  GST),  for  Category  ‘A’  technologies,  shall 

be  calculated  and 

charged  as  follows:- 

a)  5%  of  Project  Sanction  Cost  where  projects  are  not  closed. 

or 

b)  5%  of  actual  expenditure  incurred  for  closed  projects. 

or 

c)  5%  of  apportioned 

Project  Sanction 

Cost, 

in 

case 

Project 

is 

sanctioned  for  developing  more  than  one  system/  technology/  sub- 

project. 

or 

d)  5%  of  expenditure  incurred  in  case  of  development  through  buildup 

funds  of the  laboratory 

ii) 

In  order  to  facilitate  Industries/  DPSUs/PSUs,  for  case  where  ToT  Fee 

exceeds  Rs  50  Lakh  (Rs  Fifty  Lakh),  special  payment  terms  (stage 

payment)  for  ToT  Fee  shall  be  as  follows  — 

.  10%  of  the  ToT  fee  shall  be  payable  upfront  at  the  time  of  signing  of 

LAToT.  Payment  of  balance  (90%  of  ToT  fee)  shall  be  linked  to  either 

date  of  signing  of  the  LAToT  or  with  supply  order(s)  in  the  manner  as 

recommended  by  CEC.  However,  in  any  case,  irrespective  of  receipt  of 

supply  order  or  other  terms  as  decided  by  CEC,  maximum  period  for 

Page  |  6

DRDO  Policy  for  Transfer  of  Technology  2025 

payment  of  balance  ToT  fee  should  not  be  more  than  5  years  from  the 

date  of  signing  of  LAToT. 

DPSUs/PSUs  would  provide  Indemnity  Bond  and  private  industry(ies) 

would  provide  Bank  Guarantee  (BG)  for  balance  ToT  fees.  The  validity 

period  for  these  Indemnity  Bond  (IB)  and  Bank  Guarantee  (BG)  should 

be  till  the  period  of  payment  of  full  ToT  fee  as  per  approved  terms  and 

conditions  of  licensing  agreement  or  5  years  whichever  is  earlier. 

6.2 

For  Category  ‘B’  technologies  ToT  Fees  (excluding  GST)  shall  be  calculated 

and  charged  as  follows:  — 

Base  line  price  of  dual  use  technology  for  domestic  &  export  will  be 

estimated  as: 

a)  20%  of  Project  Sanction  Cost  where  projects  are  not  closed. 

or 

b)  20%  of  actual  expenditure  incurred  for  closed  projects. 

or 

c)  20%  of  apportioned  Project  Sanction  Cost, 

in  case  Project  is 

sanctioned  for  developing  more  than  one  system/  technology/  sub- 

project. 

or 

d)  20%  of  expenditure  incurred 

in 

case  of  development  through 

buildup  funds  of the  laboratory 

For  ToT  of  category  ‘B’  technologies,  Expression  of  interest  will  be 

sought  from  industries  to  explore  the  ab-initio  market  potential.  If  five  or 

more  industries  have  expressed  their  interest,  ToT  fees  to  be  finalised 

as  per  para  6.2(i)  above. 

ii) 

In  case  where  interest  received  from  less  than  05  (five)  industries,  ToT 

fees  will  be  decided  through  a  bidding  process.  In  such  cases,  ToT 

Page  |  7

DRDO  Policy  for  Transfer  of  Technology  2025 

fees  will  be  the  highest  between  maximum  bid 

price  received  and 

estimated  ToT  fees  as  per  para  6.2(i)  above. 

iv) 

No  stage  payment  of  ToT  Fee  will  be  applicable  for  ToT  of  Category  ‘B’ 

technologies. 

6.3 

Royalty 

6.3.1 

Royalty  payable  by  Industry,  for  both  Category  ‘A’  and  Category  ‘B’  technologies, 

where  IPR  rests  with  DRDO,  will  be  charged  on  net  sales  value  and  will  be  as 

follows:  - 

a) 

‘Nil  -  For  sales  in  India  to  defence  services  and  Government  departments. 

Also  supply  to  other  DcPP/PA/DP/system/  subsystem  integrator  including 

supply  chain  industries,  subject  to  availability  of  End  User  Certificate. 

b)  2%  -  For  sales  in 

India  to  other  than  Government  departments  and  for 

exports.  However,  any  export  will 

be  subjected  to  the 

prior  due 

approval  of  Government  of  India. 

6.3.2 

For  other  cases,  Royalty  to  be  decided  as  follows: 

i. 

In  case  where  there  is  joint  Intellectual  Property  Rights  (IPR),  as  per 

the  agreement  of  joint  ownership  of  IPR. 

ii. 

Any  other  compliance  requirement  as  per  Govt  regulation  (Centre  & 

State). 

6.4 

Goods  and  Services  Tax  (GST) 

The  Goods  and  Services  Tax  (GST),  as  applicable  on  ToT  fee  and  Royalty  shall 

also  be  payable  by  licensee  on  Reverse  Charge  Basis. 

6.5 

Cost  Estimation  Committee  (CEC)  - 

A  Cost  Estimation  Committee  will  be  constituted  for  every  ToT  case  covered 

under  para  6.1(ii)  and  6.2  above  to  recommend  ToT  fee,  Royalty  and  other  terms 

and  conditions  like  stage  payment,  licensing  region,  licensing  period,  etc.  The 

details  of  CEC  constitution,  terms  of  reference  etc  will  be  specified  in  the  ToT 

procedures. 

Page  |  8

DRDO  Policy  for  Transfer  of  Technology  2025 

6.6 

Approving  Authority  for  CEC  - 

The  recommendations  of  cost  estimation  committee  (CEC)  will  be  approved  by 

following  competent  authorities:- 

i. 

ii 

ToT  Fee  upto  5  Cr-  DG  (PC&SI)  with  concurrence  of  Addl  FA(R&D). 

ToT  Fee  above  5  Cr-  Secretary  DD  (R&D)  with  concurrence  of  Addl 

FA(R&D). 

6.7 

Regulation  of  ToTs  given  before  promulgation  of  this  policy 

Technology  transfer  cases  where  LAToT  has  been  signed  will  be  regulated  in 

the  following  manner  - 

i. 

Cases  where  industry  has  already  paid  full  ToT  Fee:  There  will  be  no 

refund  of  ToT  fee.  However,  Royalty  will  be  payable  as  per  Para  6.3. 

ii. 

|  For  cases,  where  industry  has  paid  partial  ToT  Fee:  Balance  of  ToT  Fee 

payable  will  be  regulated  as  per  Para  6.1  and  6.2  and  Royalty  as  per  Para 

6.3  above.  However,  there  will  be  no  refund  of  ToT  fee/  Royalty  already 

paid 

iii. 

For  cases,  where  an  industry(ies)  has  already  paid  partial/  full  ToT 

Fee,  and  ToT  needs  to  be  given  afresh  to  other  industry(ies):  ToT  Fee 

charged  shall  be  equal  to  highest  amount  of  ToT  Fee  paid  by  existing  ToT 

holders  or  as  per  Para  6.1  and  6.2,  whichever  is  higher.  This  will  ensure 

level  playing  field  among  ToT  holders.  However,  Industry  will  pay  the 

Royalty  as  per  Para  6.3. 

iv. 

ToT  Fees  &  Royalty  for  Informal  technologies  transferred  in  the  past: 

LAToT  will 

be  signed  with  industries  at 

‘NIL’  ToT  fee 

for  all  previous 

technology  transfer  through  MoUs/  document  transfer,  which  were  fructified 

before  31  Dec  2017  in  order  to  formalize  ToT  for  all  such  cases.  In  such 

cases  ‘NIL’  Royalty  will  be  charged  for  orders  already  executed  or  partly 

executed  or  repeat  orders  for  which  original  supply  order  /  contract  was 

placed  before  31  Dec  2017.  However,  Royalty  will  be  payable  as  per  Para 

6.3  (after  notification  of  this  policy)  for  new  supply  order/Contracts  placed 

after  1st  Jan  2018. 

Page  |  9

DRDO  Policy  for  Transfer  of  Technology  2025 

Technical  Assessment  Committee  (TAC) 

TAC  will  be  conducted  only  for  cases  covered  under  Para  6.1(ii)  and  6.2  above. 

TAC  is  responsible  for  assessing/  shortlisting  the  technically  and  financially 

capable 

industry(ies) 

which 

are 

capable 

of 

successfully 

absorbing 

the 

technology  and  realising  the  system/  product  based  on  the  ToT. 

7.1 

TAC 

Approving 

Authority: 

Recommendations 

will 

be 

approved 

by 

DG  (Technology  Cluster). 

Hand-holding  Support  by  Laboratories 

Hand-holding  support  would  be  provided  by  the  laboratory  for  transferring  the 

ToT  as  following:- 

i) 

Category  ‘A’ 

:  Free  Hand-holding  support  will 

be  provided  in  phases  as 

deemed  necessary  for  Category  ‘A’  technologies  as  tabulated  below:- 

Sr.  No. 

|  Project 

Sanctioned 

Cost/| 

Time 

period 

for 

Free 

Hand- 

Development Cost  (Rs) 

Holding 

(considering 

5 

man- 

days  per  week) 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

Below  50  Lakh 

3  weeks  (15  man-days) 

50  Lakh  to  5  Crore 

6  weeks  (30  man-days) 

Above  5  Crore 

12  weeks  (60  man-days) 

However,  depending  on  the  complexity  of  the  technology,  if  additional  free  hand- 

holding  support  is 

required,  the  same  can 

be  recommended  by  the  Cost 

Estimation  Committee  (CEC)  on  case  to  case  basis. 

ii)  Any  technical  assistance  sought  by  industry  beyond  free  hand  holding  period 

for  Category  ‘A’  will  be  given  by  DRDO  as  per  following  rates  (excluding  GST) 

(payable  through  e-MRO  and  applicable  GST  on  reverse  charge  basis):- 

a) 

For  Technical  assistance  in  India 

Page  |  10 

DRDO  Policy  for  Transfer  of  Technology  2025 

e 

DRDS  (Scientist): 

@  Rs  5000/-(Rupees  Five  Thousand  Only)  per  day 

per  person 

e 

Non  DRDS 

:‘@  Rs  3000/-  (Rupees  Three  Thousand  Only)  per 

day  per  person 

b) 

For  Technical  assistance  abroad 

DRDS/  Non-DRDS/  support  staff:  @  $500  (Five  Hundred  US  Dollar)  per 
day  per  person. 

c) 

For  any  deputation,  Travel  expenses,  boarding  and  lodging  charges  for 
DRDS/  non  DRDS  and  support  staff  would  be  borne  by  Industry  as  per 
actuals  and  as  permitted  by  Government  rules. 

iii)  For  Category  ‘B’:  Hand-holding  support  would  be  provided  only  on  chargeable 

basis  as  per  para  8(ii)  above. 

Transfer  of  Technology  of  Defence  Products/  Items/ 
Energy  Materials 

High 

Manufacturing  in  defence  sector  is  governed  through  industrial  licensing  under 

the  Industries  (Development  and  Regulation)  Act,  1951  and  Arms  Act  1959/Arm 

Rules  2016.  Prior to 2001,  manufacturing  in  defence  sector  was  limited  to  public 

sector  companies  only.  However,  in  2001,  the  Government  allowed  100% 

participation 

by 

Indian 

private  sector  in  defence  manufacturing  subject  to 

licensing. 

Industry 

applying 

for  ToT 

should 

have 

necessary 

permission/ 

clearance/  License  from  Department  of  Promotion  of  Industry  and  Internal  Trade 

(DPIIT),  Ministry  of  Commerce,  Govt  of  India  for  items/  products  falling  in  the  list 

which  require  Industrial  License  for  defence  manufacturing.  The  licensees  are 

required  to  follow  the  “Security  Manual  for  Licensed  Defence  Industries”,  year 

2014,  as  amended  from  time  to  time  and  notified  by  the  Department,  based  on 

the  product  being  manufactured  and  their  categorization  for  which  an  industrial 

license  is  to  be  granted  to  a  company.  In  addition  to  this,  ToT  of  high  energy 

materials/  components/  systems  (involving 

explosives, 

propellants 

& 

pyro- 

materials)  will  be  carried  out  only  to  industries  fulfilling  requirement  of  license 

issued  by  Petroleum  and  Explosive  Safety  Organisation  (PESO). 

Page  |  11

DRDO  Policy  for  Transfer  of  Technology  2025 

10 

Technology  Absorption  (TA)  Certificate  to  Industry 

In 

case 

any 

industry 

requests 

for  technology  absorption 

certificate 

from 

concerned  lab  indicating  that  the  technology  has  been  absorbed  by  the  industry, 

the  same  will 

be  issued  by  Directorate  of  Industry  Interface  &  Technology 

Management  (DIITM),  DRDO  HQrs  on  the  recommendation  of  the  concerned 

Lab  Director. 

11 

Renewal/  Extension  of  Licenses 

The  LAToT  may  be  renewed/  extended,  if  desired  by  industry.  The  concerned 

Lab  may  constitute  a  committee  for  recommending  renewal/  extension  based  on 

industry  complying  all  terms  and  conditions  of  LAToT,  performance  of  the 

industry,  sale  of  the  product  based  on  the  technology  and  user  feedback  (if 

available).  Lab  will  forward  committee  recommendations  to  DIITTM  DRDO  HQrs 

after  due  approval  by  DG  (Technology  Cluster).  DIITM  will  issue  renewal/ 

extension  certificate  to  the  industry.  Renewal/  extension  of  licensing  agreement 

for  category  ‘A’  technologies  will 

be  done  without  charging  any  renewal/ 

extension  fee.  However,  for  extension  of  licensing  agreement  of  category  ‘B’ 

technologies  will  be  done  on  payment  by  charging  fee  equal  to  last  paid  ToT  fee 

by  the  industry. 

12 

Extent  of  Government’s  March-in-Rights  Post-License/Sale 

12.1 

The  Intellectual  Property  Rights  shall  be  governed  as  per  Para  12.3  of  DRDO 

Procurement  Manual  (PM-2020),  as  amended.  However,  for  value  addition  and 

variants  carried  out  by  industry,  exclusive  ‘Rights  of  use’  may  be  granted  to 

industry  for  the  same.  However,  Intellectual  Patent  right  on  such  new  (improved) 

products/  variants  shall  vest  with  DRDO. 

12.2  DRDO  will  have  the  March-in  Rights  to  use  the  Intellectual  Property  (IP)  for  its 

own  use 

in 

the 

interest 

of  Government  of 

India  without  any 

restrictions, 

irrespective  of  the  nature  of  license  granted  in  the  ToT  agreement.  Even,  in 

cases,  where  the  outright  sale  of  IP/Joint  IP,  DRDO  reserves  the  March-in-rights 

to  use  the  IP  by  Government  of  India  for  its  Sovereign  usage  including  further 

improvement,  National  Security,  Research  &  Development  purposes  etc. 

Page  |  12

DRDO  Policy  for  Transfer  of  Technology  2025 

13 

Transfer  of  Technology  involving  usage  of  Biological  Resources 

The  Biological  Diversity  Act,  2002,  defines  “biological  resources”  as  plants, 

animals  and  micro-organisms  or  parts  thereof,  their  genetic  material  and  by- 

products  (excluding  value  added  products)  with  actual  or  potential  use  or  value, 

but  does  not  include  human  genetic  material.  No  person  shall,  without  the  prior 

approval  of  the  National  Biodiversity  Authority  (NBA)  (an  autonomous  and 

statutory  body  of  the  Ministry  of  Environment,  Forest  and  Climate  change,  Gol), 

transfer  the  results  of  any  research  relating  to  any  biological  resources  occurring 

in,  or  obtained  from,  India  for  monetary  consideration  or  otherwise  to  any  person 

who  is  not  a  citizen  of  India  or  citizen  of  India  who  is  non-resident  as  defined  in 

clause  (30)  of  section  2  of  the  Income-tax  Act,  1961  or  a  body  corporate  or 

organisation  which  is  not  registered  or  incorporated  in  India  or  which  has  any 

non-Indian  participation 

in 

its  share  capital  or  management.  Application  for 

intellectual  property  rights  falling  under  National  Biodiversity  Act  not  to  be  made 

without  approval  of  National  Biodiversity  Authority. 

ToT  involving  biological  resources  will  be  initiated  only  after  approval  of  National 

Biodiversity  Authority  by  concerned  lab. 

Also,  ToT  recipient 

industry  must 

intimate  and  obtain 

prior  approval  (if  any) 

of  State 

Biodiversity  Board  for 

obtaining  biological  resource  for  certain  purposes  or  before  commercialization.  A 

suitable  clause  is  included  in  LAToT  regarding  royalty  and  other  benefit  sharing 

for  ToT  of  Technologies  involving  Biological  Resources  as  per  NBA  “Guidelines 

on  Access  to  Biological  Resources  and  Associated  Knowledge  and  Benefit 

Sharing  Regulations’,  as  amended. 

14 

Uniform  System  of  Item  Identification 

Determination  of  the 

real  source  for  an 

item  of  supply  is  one  of  the  most 

important  prerequisites  for  proper  application  of  the  Uniform  System  of  Item 

Identification.  For  example,  NATO  Codification  System  uses  NATO  Commercial 

and  Governmental  Entity  (NCAGE)  codes  principally  to  identify  manufacturers. 

NCAGEs  are  broadly  used  in  many  countries  in  a  variety  of  logistics  processes. 

As  such,  they  are 

often  assigned  to 

a 

variety  of  organizations, 

including 

Page  |  13

DRDO  Policy  for  Transfer  of  Technology  2025 

distributors,  standards  bodies,  government  organizations,  and  service  providers. 

Standardization  directives  for  codification  have  been  issued  by  Directorate  of 

Quality,  Reliability  and  Safety,  DRDO  HQrs  vide  letter  issued  by  DQRS,  DRDO 

HQ@rs  no  DQRS/02/9240/M/1  dated  09  May  2022.  Directorate  of  Standardisation 

(DOS) 

functioning 

under  MoD/  DDP  is 

responsible 

for 

codification 

and 

cataloguing 

of  defense  inventory.  Towards  this  DOS  has  adopted  NATO 

Codification  System  (NCS)  framework.  DRDO  lab  will  obtain  NCAGE  number  for 

the  lab  from  Directorate  of  Standardization  (DoS),  DDP/  MoD.  NCAGE  shall  be 

linked  in  LAToT  and  TTD  to  have  traceability  of  the  product  designed  and 

developed  by  DRDO.  ToT  recipient  industry  to  include  NCAGE  number  of  the 

concerned  DRDO  lab  as  designer  and  it  will  be  further  linked  to  all  parts  of  the 

Technology/Products  transferred 

to 

industry 

while 

obtaining  NATO  Stock 

Number  (NSN)/  Codification  of  the  Technology/  Product. 

15 

Transfer  of  Technology  (ToT)  of  technologies  developed  under 
Grant-in-Aid  Scheme 

Technologies 

developed 

through 

DRDO-Industry-Academia- 

Centre 

of 

Excellence  (DIA-CoE),  Technology  Development  Fund  (TDF),  etc  as  a  part  of 

DRDO  Grant-in-aid  Scheme,  shall  be  transferred,  as  required,  to  industries  other 

than  engaged  in  development  of  the  technology. 

Concerned  Lab/ 

Estt 

must 

have  know-how  and  TTD  of 

the  developed 

technology/  product  and  should  also  have  provisions  for  the  same  in 

the 

contract/  agreement  signed  at  the  time  of  sanctioning  of  project  under  Grant-in- 

aid. 

In 

all  such  cases,  concerned  lab  will 

initiate  case  for  ToT  as  per  ToT 

procedure  of  this  Policy. 

16 

Transfer  of  Technology  (ToT)  involving  sharing  of  Software 
Source  Code 

The  software,  in  both  category  ‘A’  &  category  ‘B’,  will  be  given  to  ToT  recipient 

industry  without  transferring  source  code  and  in  approved  format  in  executable 

files,  binary  etc.  ToT  holder  can  do  customization  of  software  as  per  user 

requirement  such  that  there  would  be  no  need  to  access/  modify  source  code. 

Page  |  14

DRDO  Policy  for  Transfer  of  Technology  2025 

Based  on  user  requirement,  any  necessary  modification  or  enhancement  in 

software  feature/  interface  etc.  as  requested  by  ToT  holder  may  be  carried  out 

on  chargeable  basis  by  the  Lab  after  due  approval  of  competent  authority  as  per 

policy  in  vogue  to  support  industry.  Such  modification  essentially  requires  access 

to  the  software  code.  However,  IPR  remains  with  DRDO. 

In  case,  source  code  needs  to  be  transferred  to  industry,  a  statement  of  case 

with  justification  can  be  attached  with  TNF  for  approval  or  forwarded  at  a 

later 

date  when  such  requirement  arises  after  ToT  is  completed.  Such  cases  shall  be 

duly  recommended  by  Lab  director,  concurred  by  concerned  DG  (Technology 

Cluster)  before  seeking  approval  of  secretary  DD  R&D  and  Chairman  DRDO  for 

exception  or  new  aspect  in  ToT. 

ToT  fees  in  such  cases  to  be  charged  equal  to  the  expenditure  incurred  during 

the  development  of  software  with  a  suitable  multiplier  factor. 

The  expenditure 

shall 

be  worked  out  including  man-hours,  other  resources  which  were  not 

considered  while  estimating  ToT  Fee  (without  source  code)  of  the  technology 

and  valuation  of  technology  by  3  party.  DRDO  will  not  be  held  liable  for  any 

liability/  responsibility  what  so  ever  in  nature,  once  source  code  is  transferred  to 

industry. 

17 

Support  to  Micro,  Small  Enterprises  (MSEs)  and  Startups 

MSEs  and 

Startups 

selected 

under 

Govt 

competitions 

viz, 

Technology 

Development  Fund 

(TDF), 

iDEX, 

etc 

in 

the 

field 

of  deep-tech 

Defence 

technologies  like  artificial  intelligence,  quantum  computing,  robotics  etc  shall  be 

provided  support  on  priority. 

DRDO  developed 

technologies 

(required 

as 

feeder  technology) 

may 

be 

transferred  to  the  MSEs/  Startups,  engaged  in  DRDO  development  activities  in 

the  relevant  domain,  at  50%  (half) 

of  estimated  ToT  fee.  This  will  provide 

necessary  support  to  enhance  their  capabilities,  reduce  developmental  time  and 

also  decrease  financial  burden  for  developing  technologies. 

Page  |  15

DRDO  Policy  for  Transfer  of  Technology  2025 

18  Deviations  in  ToT  Policy 

There  should  normally  be  no  occasion  to  deviate  from  Policy,  however,  if  such  a 

need  arises,  the  case  will  be  submitted  for  approval  of  the  Hon’ble  Raksha 

Mantri. 

Page  |  16

Directorate  of  Industry  Interface  &  Technology  Management 
DRDO  Bhawan,  Rajaji  Marg 
New  Delhi-110011

