wa  were  faera  erat 

ELECTRONICS  AND  RADAR  DEVELOPMENT  ESTABLISHMENT  (LRDE) 
tar  aqdert  dar  fara  ast 
DEFENCE  RESEARCH  AND  DEVELOPMENT  ORGANISATION 
WT  ACH,  TAT  WATT 
GOVERNMENT  OF  INDIA,  MINISTRY  OF  DEFENCE 
at  at  ama  wr,  Fras  —  560  093 
CV  RAMAN  NAGAR,  BENGALURU  —  560  093 

Advt.  No.:  LRDE/APP-TRG/2025-26/NATS-1 
Advertisement  for  engaging  Graduate  &  Diploma  Apprentice  Trainees 
for  the  FY  2025-26 
(Under  The  Apprentices  Act,  1961) 

The  Electronics  and  Radar  Development  Establishment  (LRDE),  Bengaluru  is  one  of 
the  premier  R&D  Establishments  set  up  under  the  Defence  R&D  Organization,  Ministry  of 
India.  LRDE  invites  online  applications  from  eligible  candidates  for 
Defence,  Govt.  of 
One  Year  Apprenticeship  Training  as  per  the  following  details  under  the  provisions  of 
The  Apprentices  Act,  1961,  as  amended  from  time  to  time:- 

Il.  Graduate: 

Discipline 

Vacancy  |  Essential  Qualification 

Stipend 
per  Month 

Ss. 
No. 
1. 

2. 

3. 
4. 

1. 
2. 

3.__| 
4. 

|  Electronics  and 

Communication  Engg. 

|  Computer  Science &  Engg. 
/  Information  Technology 

_|  Mechanical  Engg. 
|  Electrical  /  Electrical  & 

Electronics  Engg. 

|  B.Com. /  BBA 
|  B.Sc  (Chemistry / 

Computer  Science / 
Electronics  /  Mathematics / 
Physics  /  PCM) 
BCA 

|  B.Lib.  Sc/B.  Lib.  1  Sc 

Total 

A  Degree  in  engineering  |  =  9000/- 
or  technology  granted  by  | Rupees 
Nine 
a  statutory  University  or  | Thousand  only 
an  institution  empowered 
to  grant  such  degree  by 
an  Act  of  Parliament. 

A  Degree  granted  by  a 
statutory  University  or  an 
institution  empowered  to 
grant  such  degree  by  an 
Act  of  Parliament. 

10 

10 

05 
03 

10 
10 

05 
05 
58 

ll.  Diploma: 

Ss. 
No. 
1. 

2. 

3. 

Discipline 

|  Electronics  and 

Communication  Engg. 

|  Computer  Science  &  Engg. 
/  Information  Technology 
|  Mechanical  /  Automobile  / 
Production  Engineering 

4. 

|  Electrical  /  Electrical  & 

Electronics  Engg. 

5.  _|  Civil  Engg. 

2.  Procedure  to  Apply: 

Total 

Total 
Vacancy 
08 

08 

08 

04 

02 
30 

Essential  Qualification 

Stipend 
per  Month 

or  |  Rupees  _  Eight 
qualification  | Thousand  only 

technology 

A  Diploma  in  engineering  |  =  8000/- 
or 
equivalent 
granted  by  a  State  Board 
of  Technical  Education  or 
recognized  by  the  State 
concerned 
Government 
Central 
the 
or 
Government. 

Please  read  the  terms  and  conditions  carefully  before  applying. 

1) 
2)  Candidates  must  get  enrolled  on  National  Apprenticeship  Training  Scheme  (NATS) 

portal  https://nats.education.gov.in  of  Govt.  of  India. 
apply 

3).Candidates  need 

for 

to 

the  vacancies  under  “Graduate  and  Diploma 

Apprentices”  of  LRDE  on  NATS  portal.  LRDE  ID:  SKABNC000060 

Page  1  of  3

3.  Selection  Process: 

Depending  upon  the  vacancies  available  in  various  categories  and  disciplines, 
selection  of  candidates  will  be  carried  out  by  short  listing  on  the  basis  of  academic  merit  / 
written  test  /  interview  as  may  as  required,  subject  to  satisfactory  verification  of  the  documents. 

4.  Terms  and  Conditions: 
online 
1) 

through 

applications 

be 
Only 
Candidates  fulfilling  the  eligibility  criteria  may  apply  online  up  to  25  May  2025. 
Indian  Nationals  only  eligible  to  apply. 

https://nats.education.gov.in 

2) 
3)  Minimum  age  of  the  candidate  should  be 

this 
advertisement.  Maximum  age  limit  will  be  applied  as  per  the  provisions  of  Govt.  of  India. 
Only  those  candidates  who  have  passed  qualifying  examination  in  the  year  2023  or  later 
can  apply.  Candidates  who  have  passed  the  qualifying  examination  before  2023  are  NOT 
eligible. 

closing  date  of 

18  years  as 

5)  Only  those  candidates  who  have  passed  qualifying  examination  as  regular  candidates  are 

accepted. 

will 

on 

4) 

eligible  to  apply. 

6)  Applications  of  those  candidates  who  have  appeared  in  the  qualifying  examination  but 
whose  results  have  not  been  declared/  available  as  on  closing  date  of  this  advertisement 
Provisional  Degree  Certificates  of  qualifying 
will  NOT  be  considered  for  training. 
examination  would  however  be  acceptable  during  the  time  of  joining,  but  final  degree 
certificates  shall  have  to  be  submitted  as  and  when  received  for  verification  and 
acceptance. 

7)  The  marks  obtained  in  the  qualifying  examination  are  to  be  mentioned  in  percentage.  In 
case  of  CGPA,  candidates  are  requested  to  convert  the  CGPA  into  percentage  as  per 
their  university /  institute  norms  and  the  same  will  be  verified  during  document  verification. 
Document  regarding  conversion  formula  given  by  university  /  institute  to  be  produced 
during  document  verification. 

8)  Candidates  with  higher  qualification  are  NOT  eligible  to  apply. 
9)  Candidates  who  had  training  or  job  experience  for  a  period  of  one  year  or  more  after 

attaining  the  essential  qualification  are  NOT  eligible  to  apply. 

10)  Candidates  who  have  already  undergone  apprenticeship  training  or  at  present  undergoing 

apprenticeship  training  under  any  organisation  are  NOT  eligible. 

11)  Reservations  will  be  applied  as  per  the  provisions  of  The  Apprentices  Act,  1961,  as 
amended  from  time  to  time.  Applicants  belonging  to  SC  (Scheduled  Caste)  /  ST 
/  OBC  (Other  Backward  Classes)  —  Non-  Creamy  Layer  / 
(Scheduled  Tribes) 
Economically  Weaker  Sections  (EWS)  and  Person  with  Disability  (PwBD)  shall  produce 
relevant  certificates  issued  by  the  Competent  Authority. 

12)  The  selected  candidates  have  to  get  their  character  &  antecedents  verified  before 
commencement  of  training.  Candidates  selected  will  have  to  produce  valid  police 
verification  certificate  at  the  time  of  joining  from  their  place  of  last  residence  (for  at  least 
past  one  year)  and  permanent  address. 

13)  The  selected  candidates  have  to  produce  the  “Certificate  of  Physical  Fitness”  as  per 
attached  format  issued  by  authorised  Medical  Officer  of  any  Government  Hospital.  Final 
selection  of  the  candidate  depends  upon  the  candidate's  fulfilling  health  standards  as 
prescribed  in  Apprentices  Act,  1961,  as  amended  from  time  to  time. 

14)The  selected  candidates  should  be  in 

a  position  to  join  the  establishment  on  the 
prescribed  date  of  joining.  If  the  candidate  does  not  report  latest  by  scheduled  date,  it  is 
assumed  that  the  candidate  is  not  interested  in  the  apprenticeship  and  the  candidature 
may  be  forfeited  without  further  communication. 

15)  The  selected  candidate  must  execute  a  contract  for  a  period  of  one  year  of  training  as  per 

the  provisions  of  The  Apprentices  Act,  1961  and  rules  framed  there  under. 

16)  The  period  of  training  will  be  one  year  commencing  from  the  date  of  execution  of  the 

contract  of  apprenticeship. 

17)  Candidates  before  filling  the  application  form  shall  ensure  that  they  fulfill  all  the  eligibility 
_----~.conditions  for  the  apprenticeship  training.  If  at  any  stage  of  selection  or  even  after 
selection  and  joining  or  during  training,  it  comes  to  the  notice  that  the  candidate/  trainee 
Page  2  of  3 

-- 

Z 

does  not  fulfill  any  of  the  eligibility  conditions  or  the  facts  stated  are  not  true  or  the 
documents  enclosed  by  the  applicant  are  false/forged,  the  candidature  of  such  candidate 
shall  be  disqualified  /  cancelled  immediately. 

18)  Canvassing  /  influencing  in  any  form  shall  lead  to  disqualification  of  the  candidate. 
19)LRDE  reserves  the 

rights  to  increase  or  decrease  the  number  of  vacancies  for 
apprenticeship  training  and  to  withdraw  /  cancel  the  advertisement  /  selection  process  if 
circumstances  so  warrant  without  assigning  any  reason  thereof. 
20)  LRDE  reserves  the  right  to  adopt  its  own  method  of  short-listing  criteria  and  is  NOT 
obliged  to  shortlist  all  the  candidates  who  fulfil  the  minimum  requirement.  Mere  fulfilment 
of  requirements  as  laid  down  in  the  advertisement  does  not  qualify  a  candidate  to  be 
selected. 

21)  All  selected  candidates  are  required  to  bring  self-attested  copy  of  documents  mentioned 
its  original  certificates  along  with  the  printout  of  the  application  form  during 

below  & 
document  verification  /  joining:  - 

i. 
ii. 

10th  Mark  sheet  and  Certificate 
Mark  sheets  of  qualifying  examinations  for  all  semesters  /  year  wise  as 
applicable 
iii. 
Degree  /  Diploma  Certificate  or  Provisional  Degree  /  Diploma  Certificate 
iv. 
Caste  Certificate  (if  applicable) 
v.  PWD  Certificate  (if  applicable) 
vi.  EWS  certificate  (if  applicable) 
vii. 

Photo  ID  card  issued  by  respective  State  Govt.  or  Govt.  of  India  (Preferably 
Aadhaar  Card) 
Two  recent  Passport  size  photographs 
Police  Verification  Certificate  (District  Authority) 
Certificate  of  Physical  Fitness  as  per  the  format  enclosed 
Copy  of  Aadhaar  seeded  bank  A/c  passbook 

viii. 
ix. 
x. 
xi. 

22)  LRDE  reserves  the  rights  to  amend  /  suspend  /  cancel  the  selection  process  at  any  time 

during  the  process  without  assigning  any  reason. 

23)  The  candidates  will  NOT  be  provided  any  accommodation  /  transport  /  transport  allowance 

by  this  establishment  during  the  selection  or  training. 

24)  No  correspondence  shall  be  entertained  from  the  candidates  not  selected  for  training. 
25)  It  shall  NOT  be  obligatory  on  the  part  of  LRDE,  where  training  shall  be  imparted,  to 
offer  any  employment  to  any  apprentice  on  completion  of  the  apprenticeship 
training. 

—- 

Director 
LRDE,  Bengaluru 

Page  3  of  3 

