FABRICATION OF BRAKE PARACHUTE (HYBRID) FOR LCA

Brake parachute for LCA is used to assist normal wheel braking and to reduce the landing run

of   the   aircraft.  The   Brake   Parachute   system   for   LCA   is   fabricated   using   various   textile

materials   (Nylon   cordages,   webbings   and   fabrics)   and   metal   parts.   The   major

components/subsystems of brake parachute system are given below: 

 Pilot chute
 Auxiliary Parachute
 Main Parachute
 Deployment bag

    The inflated parachute is shown in above figure.

1. Interested Companies/industries are requested to apply against this EoI to the 
following address:-

Director
Aerial Delivery Research and Development Establishment (ADRDE)
PO Box 51, Station Road
Agra Cantt – 282001

Phone : 0562 - 2258200/201/202
Fax: 0562- 2251677 / 2258203
Email : director[dot]adrde[at]gov[dot]in

2.  A copy of interest may be sent to the following address without any attachment:-

Copy to: (For information only) 

Director 

Directorate Industry Interface and Technology Management (DIITM) 

Room No 447, DRDO Bhawan, DRDO HQrs, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi – 110011

 Phone No: 01123013209/23015291 Fax No: 011-23793008 

Email ID: diitm[dot]hqr[at]gov[dot]in

List of Support documents to be attached with EoI:- 

(a)   Memorandum   and   Articles   of   Association   (Should   be   incorporated   as   per   Indian
Companies Act, as amended time to time). 

(b) Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.

(c) Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.

 
(d) Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period.

  (e)   Details   of   shareholding/ownership   pattern   especially   foreign   partners/shareholders,
foreign employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt of India
policies and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)/ DIPP norms as applicable. 

(f) Annual budget for R&D during last three years.

 (g) Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company. 

(h) Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel.

(i) Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of Defence
orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).

(j) Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their production capacities)
and technical expertise. 

(k) List of Testing and Support equipments. 

(l) ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification.

(m) Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any).

(n)   Capacity   and   capability   to   undertake   developmental   work   and   to   accept   attendant
financial and commercial risks. 

(o)   Capacity/capability   to   market   the   product   through   the   marketing   network,   sales   and
service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 

(p)  PESO  and   DPIIT  license  for  explosive  handling  if  ToT  is  for  high  energy   Material,
explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc. 

(q)   Under   taking   form   company   seeking   ToT   that   none   of   its   Directors,   Independent
Directors, non-executive Directors, Key management personnel are involved in any corrupt
practices, unfair means and illegal activities. 

(r) Details of the industries license for Defence manufacturing be provided by the industry
seeking ToTs.

