Counter Drone System 

1.    Drones  or  Unmanned  Aerial  Vehicles  (UAV)  are  flying  objects  which  are  having 
varied  span  of  dimensions  –  few  centimeters  to  few  meters,  and  payloads  starting 
from  few  grams  to  few  kilograms.  The  trend  of  using  small  drones  to  execute 
different  tasks  has  increased  over  the  last  few  years.  At  the  same  time,  the  threat 
caused  by  drones  to  the  society,  public  security  and  personal  privacy  is  also 
becoming  increasingly  high.  From  the  security  point  of  view,  drones  allow  an 
attacker to reach any target in any location without risk to personnel, and there is an 
ever-expanding domain of usage, ranging from weapon carrier to espionage tools.  

2.  To mitigate and negate the impact of drones, there is a requirement to develop and 
deploy counter drone systems for detection, deterrence and destruction of incoming 
drone  threats.  Considering  the  unique  nature  of  drones  in  terms  of  speed,  size, 
hovering capability and resemblance to birds, no sensor system in standalone will be 
able to provide sufficient detection, tracking and identification capability to guarantee 
a  reliable  and  effective  defence  against  threats  from  drones.  Conventional  air 
defence solutions presently available with the country, which are designed to detect 
large, fast moving aerial objects, are not effective against small, low flying and slow-
moving  drones.  Therefore,  a  combination  of  several  types  of  detection  capabilities 
including emission and reflection of microwave, infrared, visible light etc are required 
to detect and identify drones.  

3.  Counter drone system can detect, track and identify airborne drones using multiple 
sensors,  transfer  the  information  to  associated  systems  and  enable  counter 
techniques to deny them the intended operation (soft kill) and/ or destroy them (hard 
kill). 

4.    The  detection  of  drone  is  done  with  the  help  of  Radars  and  RF  based  detection 
system.  The  identification  is  done  with  the  help  of  Electro  Optic  sensor  and 
COMINT. The soft kill is carried out with RF jamming & Anti GNSS technologies and 
Hard kill with the help of Laser Directed Energy Weapon (DEW).  

5.    The  system  can  detect,  identify  and  neutralize  different  types  of  drones  including 
Small Hybrid UAVs, Micro UAV/ Multi rotor, and Nano UAVs. Counter Drone System 
consists of the following components: 

      a)  Drone detection and tracking Radar  
      b)  Day and night camera with laser ranging for detection and tracking of Drone target  
      c)  Communication channel Detection & jamming system (Soft Kill)  
      d)  GPS Jamming/ Spoofing System (Soft Kill)  
      e)  Laser Directed Energy Weapon System (Hard Kill)  
      f)   Command & Control Centre (C3) with Power Source for complete System  

Interested  industries  are  requested  to  forward  their  Expression  of  Interest  (EoI)  (with 
supporting  documents)  to  Director  LRDE  with  a  copy  to  Director  DIITM,  DRDO  HQ 
(without supporting documents) to the addresses mentioned below:- 

 
 
 
 
The Director 
Electronics and Radar Development Establishment  
DRDO Complex, CV Raman Nagar Bengaluru 560093 
Phone No – 080-25241959/25025331 
Fax No – 080-25242916 
Email:  director[dot]lrde[at]gov[dot]in 

The Director 
Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM) 
Room No 447, DRDO Bhawan, DRDO HQrs, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi – 110011 
Phone: 011-23013209/ 23015291 
Fax: 011-23793008 
Email: diitm[dot]hqr[at]gov[dot]in 

Terms and Conditions 

1.  EoI Closing Date:  Within 21 days from the date of publication on DRDO website.  

2. Industries desirous of participating in EOI should be willing to realise one full system 

on NC-NC basis for demonstration to potential users.  

3. Turnover: Rs 500 Cr per annum.  

4.  Industries  seeking  ToT  should  have  experience  in  the  field  of  electronics,  Electro 

Optics, electro mechanical system etc. 

All  Industries  interested  in  seeking  ToT  are  requested  to  furnish  details  in  the  format 
given in Part-1 &  Part-2 below and the list of documents to be attached  is provided in 
Annexure  –  I.  Kindly  provide  the  reference  of  page  no.  of  supporting  document  in  the 
relevant field of form. 

General Information 
(Please enclose documents in support of information provided) 

PART-1  

1  Name of the Technology requested for Technology 
Transfer (Technology name and concerned Lab, 
Category) 

2  Name of the industry/ organization 

3  Complete Address and other details 

Registered Office 

State 
Phone No 
Fax 
Email 
Website 
Factory 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
State 
Phone No 
Fax 
Email 
Website 

4  Point of Contact  

Name 
Designation 
Address 
Mobile No 
Ph No 
Email ID 

5  NAME OF CMD/ MD /PARTNERS/ PROPRIETOR/ 

etc  
Name 
Designation 
Address 
Mobile No 
Ph No 
Email ID 

Foreign Direct Investment in company (if any in %) 

6  Date of Incorporation of company 
7 
8  Shareholding pattern 
9 

Turn over as per Audited Balance Sheet for the 
preceding three years. 
Year ____ 
Year ____ 
Year ____ 

10  Annual budget for R&D during last three years (if 

11 

any) 
Year ____  
Year ____  
Year ____ 
Income Tax returns for the preceding three years 
period  
Year ____ 
Year ____  
Year ____ 

12  Nature of company 

DPSU, Private Limited, Public Limited, Partnership, 
Proprietary, Ex- Serviceman Unit 

13  Category of industry 

Large Scale, Medium Scale, Small Scale, Micro, 
Startup 

14  MSME Registration No 
15  Certificates of registration as a manufacturing 

unit, if any. 
If Startup, DPIIT Registration No 

16 
17  UDYOG AADHAR No 
18  PAN Number 
19  Details of Industrial license for defence 
manufacturing issued by DPIIT (if any) 

20  Details of PESO license (if any) 
21  GST Number 
22  Nature of business 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Manufacturing/ Sole Selling or Authorized Agent/ 
Assembler/ Traders/ Dealer/ Processor/ Repacker/ 
Others 

23  Details of current products and services 

Products and services Supplied (please specify Govt/ 
Domestic market/ Export) 
24  Record of past performance 

(e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of 
Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary 
Forces, if any). 

25  Details of registration with 

NSIC / SSI, DGS&D, other Defence Department, other 
Govt. Dept, membership of FICCI/ASSOCHAM/CII or 
other Industrial Association 
(Attach relevant copies of registration letters) 
26  Have you already taken any technology from 

DRDO (If yes, give details attaching separate sheet) 

Name of the Technology, Lab, Year, License number 
& Status 
ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification (If 
yes, give details) 

27 

28  Relevant clearances form the authorities/ 

ministries (if any) 

29  Capacity and capability to undertake 

developmental work and to accept attendant 
financial and commercial risks. 

30  Capacity/capability to market the product through 
the marketing network, sales and service network, 
reliability to maintain confidentiality. 

Infrastructure and other Information 

PART-2 

1 

Total area of factory  
Covered (m2),  
Uncovered (m2), 
Bonded space available (m2) 

2  Ownership of factory 

3 

Self-owned, partnership, rental 
Electric power 
Sanctioned 
Installed 
Standby (if any) 

4  Availability of adequate infrastructure  

(List of machines and their production capacities) and 
technical expertise 

5  Name of bank & A/c No Name of bank 

A/c type 
A/c no 
Address of the bank  
Phone:  
Email: 

6  Details of current products: 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
S.No 

Type  Description 

Licensed/installed capacity  Annual production for 

preceding 3 years 

7  Details of foreign collaboration, if any 

S.No 

Product 

Name and address of collaborator 

Year 

Remarks 

8 Details of products developed for services 

S.No 

Nomenclature of stores 

Order No. and date 

Remarks 

9 Please give details of important facilities & infrastructure as per 

following format for: 

a)  Production 
b)  Unconventional, special m/c 
c)  Testing & quality control facilities  

S.No  Description of m/c  Make & model 

Qty 

Date of 
purchase 

Remarks 

10 Furnish the following details with relevant certificates and documents 

a)  R&D facilities available   
b)  Inspection quality control of raw material components 
c)  Assistance from central agency  for testing / calibration etc. 
d)  laboratory  and  drawing  office  facility   

: 
: 
: 

: 

11 Principal customers: 

S. No  Name & address 

S.O No and 
date 

Date of last 
supply 

Products 
supplied 

Value 

12  Future plans (if any) in respect of expansion programme/ installation 

of additional machines/ test facilities etc. 

13  Name of the technology requested for transfer 

(give self-assessment of your capability to absorb the technology) 

14  Details of employee as on date on firm’s pay roll 

PERMANENT 
Category 
Technical 

Post Held 
Prod. Manager 
Q.C. Manager 
Supervisor 
Testing Staff (QC) 
Skilled workers 
Unskilled workers, etc 

Number  Qualification  Total Service 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Administrative 

TEMPORARY 
Category 
Technical 

Administrative 

Purchase Manager 
Accounts Officer  
Office Superintendent 
Clerical 
Others, etc 

Post Held 
Prod. Manager 
Q.C. Manager 
Supervisor 
Testing Staff (QC) 
Skilled workers 
Unskilled workers, etc 
Purchase Manager 
Accounts Officer  
Office Superintendent 
Clerical 
Others, etc 

Number  Qualification  Total Service 

DECLA R A TIO N : 

I / we confirm that the information furnished in Part 1 & 2 above is correct. In 
the  event  of  any  information  given  by  me  /  us  is  found  incorrect  /  false  at  any 
time,  I  /  we  understand our  EoI  for  T oT  will  be  cancelled/  rejected  without  notice, 
beside any other appropriate action against me / us. 

Industry seal 

Date:  
Place: 

                                     Authorized signatory 

                                  Name(s) in capital 

                   Designation and seal of               
authorized signatory 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
List of Supporting Documents to be Attached with EoI 

(a) Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian 

Annexure -I 

Companies Act, as amended time to time) 

(b) Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any. 

(c) Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.  

(d) Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period  

(e) Details  of  shareholding/  ownership  pattern  especially 

foreign  partners/ 

shareholders,  foreign  employees,  directors,  etc.  The  company  must  adhere  to 

the prevailing Govt of India policies and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment 

(FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable.  

(f)  Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  

(g) Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company. 

(h) Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel. 

(i)  Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of 

Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).  

(j)  Availability  of  adequate  infrastructure  (List  of  machines  and  their  production 

capacities) and technical expertise.  

(k) List of Testing and Support equipment’s 

(l)  ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification  

(m)Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any) 

(n) Capacity  and  capability  to  undertake  developmental  work  and  to  accept 

attendant financial and commercial risks.  

(o) Capacity/capability  to  market  the  product  through  the  marketing  network,  sales 

and service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 

(p) PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy Material, 

explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc.  

(q) Under taking form company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, Independent 

Directors,  non-executive  Directors,  Key  management  personnel  are  involved  in 

any corrupt practices, unfair means and illegal activities. 

(r)  Details  of  the  industrial  license  for  defence  manufacturing  be  provided  by  the 

industry seeking ToTs. 

    (s) Duly filled Application cum Industry Assessment Form (as per annexure attached) 

 
 
 
 
