Manufacturing  of  EDB Propellant ERAS-TI-2000

Extruded   Double   Base   (EDB)   Motor   demands   high   burn   rate   EDB   propellant.   The
Propellant needs to meet the following requirements:-

(i)
(ii)
(iii)
(iv) 
(v)

High burn rate.
High Mechinical Properties suitable for free standing grain.
Smokeless exhaust.
Low Pressure exponent values in high pressure range.
Suitable for operation in temperature of range of -20o C to +55o C.

HEMRL has developed EDB Propellant to meet the requirement of enhanced ranges. A
unique   combination   of   ballistic   modifiers   and     processing   methodology   was   used   to
achieve the high burn rate and desired ballistic properties.

NC-NG based high burn rate EDB propellant composition was developed in order to meet
the required pressure time & thrust time profile. Processing and validation method of this
EDB motor propellant is different from   regular EDB & composite propellant processing
technology.

The EDB propellant processing technology has been fully established   and validated in
static and   flight  trials. All   the  development  activities such  as establishement  of Double
Base EDB Propellant composition, Processing technology, ballistic performance evaluation
trials, dynamic trials and range table validation trials have been sucessfully completed . All
the QRs  have been met in the trials.

Developed technology is at par with globally available technology. All the raw materials
and   equipment   required   for   processing   of   EDB   propellant   ERAS-TI-2000   are   avaialble
indigenously. The propellant manufacturing technology is now mature & ready for transfer
to industry partner.

1.

Interested   Companies/industries   are   requested   to   apply   against   this   EoI   to   the
following address:-

To, 
The Director,
High Energy Materials Research  Laboratory (HEMRL)
Sutarwadi, Pune-411 021
Email- director.hemrl@gov.in

2. 

A copy of interest may be sent to the following address without any attachment:-

To, 
The Director, 
Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM)
Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110 011
Email-diitm.hqr@gov.in

List of Support documents to be attached with EoI:-

(a)  Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian  

Companies  Act, as amended time to time).

(b) 

Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.

(c) 

Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.

(d) 

Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period.

Details of shareholding/ownership pattern especially foreign partners/shareholders, 
foreign employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt

(e) 

of 

India policies and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)/ DIPP norms  as
applicable.

(f) 

Annual budget for R&D during last three years.

(g) 

Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company.

(h) 

Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel.

(i) 

(j) 

Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of  
Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).

Availability   of   adequate   infrastructure   (List   of   machines   and   their   production  
capacities)  and 

technical expertise.

(k) 

List of Testing and Support equipments.

(l) 

ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification.

(m)  Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any).

(n) 

(o) 

(p) 

(q) 

Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept
attendant financial and commercial risks.

Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales  and
service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality.

PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy  Material,
explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc.

Under taking form company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, Independent  
Directors, non-executive Directors, Key management personnel are involved in any 
corrupt practices, unfair means and illegal activities.

(r) 

Details  of   the   industries  license   for   Defence   manufacturing   be   provided   by   the  
industry seeking ToTs.

 
