Fabrication of Pilot Parachute Assembly, Part No. ADRDE/1.2.06-00 for Hawk – 132 
aircraft 

Pilot  Parachute  Assembly,  Part  No.  ADRDE/1.2.06-00  for  Hawk-132  aircraft  is  lifesaving 
equipment.  It  is  installed  on  the  ejection  seat.  During  emergency/malfunctioning  of 
aircraft, pilot pulls the firing handle which in turn activate the Emergency Escape System 
(EES). On activation of EES, main canopy is pulled out of headrest of ejection seat and on 
inflation  of  canopy,  it  brings  down  the  pilot  safely  on  ground  or  water.  Pilot  parachute 
mainly consists of following subsystems: 
(i) 

First  stage  drogue  parachute:  It  is  made  of  cotton  fabric  and  cordages,  used  to 
deploy the second stage drogue parachute.   
Second  stage  drogue  parachute  sub  system:  it  is  made  of  cotton  fabric  and 
cordages used to stabilize the ejection seat and reduce the speed of ejection seat 
for safe deployment of main parachute. 

(ii) 

(iii)  Main Canopy: It is used to reduce the speed of pilot for safe landing on ground or 

(iv) 

water. It is made of nylon fabric, cordages and tapes. 
Harness:  It  is  a  coupling  element  between  ejection  seat  and  main  canopy.  It  is 
made narrow fabrics i.e. various tapes and webbings and metallic components.  

Pilot  parachute  system  is  fabricated  using  various  textile  materials  and  metal  parts.  The 
textile materials consist of fabrics, narrow fabrics (tapes and webbings), cordages. Majority 
of textile materials are made of Nylon6/Nylon66 and few of Polyester and Cotton. The metal 
parts  consist  of  buckles/lugs  made  of  ferrous  based  alloy  and  aluminum-based  alloy.  In 
order to fabricate the pilot parachute system firms, should have industrial sewing machines 
and skilled manpower in cutting/tailoring/stitching of textile materials.   

Fig: Pilot Parachute               Fig: Harness                       Fig: 2nd stage drogue          Fig: 1st stage drogue 

Contact Details  

Interested companies/industries are requested to apply against this EoI to following address:-  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To,  

Director 
Aerial Delivery Research and Development Establishment (ADRDE) 
PO Box 51, Station Road 
Agra Cantt – 282001 

Email- director.adrde@gov.in  

Copy to (without attachment)  

The  

Director Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM) Room No. 
447, DRDO Bhawan, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110 011  

Email-diitm.hqr@gov.in  

List of Support documents to be attached with EoI  

(a) Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian Companies Act, 
as amended time to time)  

(b) Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.  

(c) Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years. 

(d) Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period 

(e)  Details  of  shareholding/ownership  pattern  especially  foreign  partners/  shareholders,  foreign 
employees,  directors,  etc.  The  company  must  adhere  to  the  prevailing  Govt  of  India  policies  and 
regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable.  

(f) Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  

(g) Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company.  

(h) Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel.  

(i) Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of Defence orders, 
Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any). 

(j)  Availability  of  adequate  infrastructure  (List  of  machines  and  their  production  capacities)  and 
technical expertise.  

(k) List of Testing and Support equipment’s  

(l)   ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification 

(m) Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any) 

(n) Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept attendant financial and 
commercial risks.  

(o)  Capacity/capability  to  market  the  product  through  the  marketing  network,  sales  and  service 
network, reliability to maintain confidentiality.  

(p)  PESO  and  DPIIT  license  for  explosive  handling  if  ToT  is  for  high  energy  Material,  explosives, 
propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc.  

(q) Under taking form company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, Independent Directors, non-
executive Directors, Key management personnel are involved in any corrupt practices, unfair means 
and illegal activities.  

(r) Details of the industrials license for defence manufacturing be provided by the industry seeking 
ToTs. 

