‘ASREM-3100P’

 (Aircraft Store Release & Ejector Mechanism)

‘ASREM-3100P’, a 14inch pneumatically actuated ejection and release unit
is used for safe separation of stores from fighter aircraft. ASREM-3100P releases
and ejects the stores away from the aircraft after receiving the command. Entire
release   mechanism   of   ASREM-3100P   is   housed   within   the   two   alumium   plates
which has marking for manual or ground locking/ unlocking of store. It holds the
store with its two suspension hooks, spaced at 14inches and engaged with NATO
std   lugs   of   stores,   during   various   flight   manoeuvres.   Two   thrust   ejectors   have
been provided at both ends of ASREM-3100P to impart the ejection velocity on
store   during  launch,  which   ensure   the   safe  separation   of  store.  These  ejectors
housing also enclose the sway braces. Four Sway braces, two at fore end and two
at   aft   end   have   been   provided   with   preload   to   constrain   the   stores   tri-axially
during flying. Using the four mounting holes provided on ejector housing, ASREM-
3100P can be integrated on twin or quad rack which itself is integrated on fighter
aircraft. ASREM-3100P is also provided with micro switches which sense and send
feedback of locking or unlocking of mechanism. 

ASREM-3100P   is   actuated   using   high   pressure   pneumatic   system.   Gas   is
stored at high pressure inside the bottle  and released to the manifold  through
solenoid   valve   when   electric   supply   is   provided.   Flow   of   pneumatic   pressure
towards fore and aft ejector end has been controlled through orifice setting which
results   in   desirable   pitch   up/down   release   of   store.   This   pneumatic   actuation
system provides the maintenance free operation of ASREM-3100P. 

ASREM-3100P   is   qualified   for   airworthiness   and   CEMILAC   certificate   has

been granted for airborne applications. 

1.

Interested Companies/industries are requested to apply againist this EoI to 
following  address:-
To, 
The Directior,
Research & Development Establishment(Engineers)
Kalas, Alandi Road, Dighi P.O., Pune-411 015
Email- director.rde@gov.in

2. 

A   copy   of   interest   may   be   sent   to   the   following   address   without   any  
attachment:-

To, 
The Director, 
Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management(DIITM)
Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110 011
Email-diitm.hqr@gov.in

 
 
 
List of Support documents to be attached with EoI:-

(a)  Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian  

Companies Act, as amended time to time).

(b) 

Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.

(c) 

Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.

(d) 

Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period.

(e) 

  shareholding/ownership   pattern   especially  

Details   of
partners/shareholders, foreign  employees, directors, etc. The company 
adhere to the prevailing Govt of India policies 
Direct Investment (FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable.

and regulations on  Foreign

foreign

must

(f) 

Annual budget for R&D during last three years.

(g) 

Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company.

(h) 

Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel.

(i) 

(j) 

Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of  
Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if  any).

Availability   of   adequate   infrastructure   (List   of   machines   and   their   production  
capacities) and technical expertise.

(k) 

List of Testing and Support equipments.

(l) 

ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification.

(m)  Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any).

(n) 

(o) 

(p) 

(q) 

Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept
attendant financial and commercial risks.

Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network, 
and service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality.

sales

PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy  Material,
explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it  etc.

Under   taking   form   company   seeking   ToT   that   none   of   its   Directors,
Independent Directors,  non-executive Directors, Key management  personnel
are involved in any corrupt practices,  unfair means and 

illegal activities.

(r) 

Details of the industries license for Defence manufacturing be provided by 
industry seeking ToTs.

the  

 
 
 
 
 
