Manufacture of Fused Silica Radar Domes by Cold Isostatic Pressing
and Sintering Route

Defence   Metallurgical   Research   Laboratory   (DMRL),   Hyderabad   has   developed
Fused silica radomes by Cold Isostatic Pressing (CIP) Technology integrated with
RF seeker and performance evaluation tests were successful. The CIP technology
of   DMRL   offers   high   yield   of   radomes   with   targeted/acceptable   properties.   This
technology uses indigenously available raw materials.

Brief   about   the   Technology:  Fused   silica   is   the   preferred   ceramic   material   for
fabrication   of   radomes   based   on   its   attractive   electromagnetic   and   mechanical
properties   as   well   as   good   thermal   shock   resistance.   DMRL   has   successfully
established   the   Cold   Isostatic   Pressing   (CIP)   and   sintering   route   to   manufacture
fused   silica   radomes   with   acceptable   properties   for   missile   application.   The
technology   envisages   identification   of   (i)   Powder   characteristics   (ii)   Binders   and
special sintering reagents (iii) CIP parameters
and   (iv)   Sintering   schedules   to   achieve   the
material   with   desired   microstructure   and
amorphous structure. The CIP+sintered silica
exhibits   desired   combination   of   density,
electro-magnetic  and   mechanical  properties.
A   patent   application   on   the   CIP-technology
for   silica   radomes   has   been   filed   to   Indian
Patent   authorities   vide   Application   No:
201611032025. 

CIP+Sintered   and   machined   silica
radomes of with metallic bulk head.

Application areas: The fused silica radomes

are used for a wide-range of target seeking missiles.

The CIP technology developed in DMRL for fabrication of radomes has undergone
type   trials   involving   internal   R&QA   of   DMRL,   MSQAA   (DRDL)   and   RCMA
(Materials). The material corresponding  to  full-size radomes was evaluated for all
relevant properties including non-destructive evaluation and subsequently the type
test schedule was prepared. 

Transfer of CIP Technology for bulk production of radomes:  Large number of
radomes   requirement   is   anticipated   for   various   programmes.   The   patented   CIP
technology of DMRL was  transferred  to three industries on non-exclusive basis for
regular production.

This   technology   is   offered   for   technology   transfer   to   more   industries   on   non-
exclusive basis after technical evaluation of the industries as per the DRDO Policy
and Procedures for Transfer of Technology. 

Interested Industries are requested to forward their Expression of Interest (EoI) to
Director DMRL, Hyderabad (with attachments of supporting documents) with a copy
to Director DIITM, DRDO HQ (without attachment) on following address:-

Director
Defence Metallurgical Research Laboratory
Kanchanbagh P.O.,
Hyderabad-500058
Phone : 040-2434 0681

Fax : 040-24340683
Email : director[dot]dmrl[at]gov[dot]in

Copy to:

Director
Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM)
Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi – 110 011
Phone: 011-23013209/23015291
Fax: 011-23793008
Email: diitm[dot]hqr[at]gov]dot]in

a)

b)
c)
d)
e)

f)
g)
h)
i)

j)

k)
l)
m)
n)

o)

p)

q)

r)

List of Support documents to be attached with EoI

Memorandum   and   Articles   of   Association   (Should   be   incorporated   as   per
Indian Companies Act, as amended time to time)
Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.
Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years. 
Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period 
Details   of   shareholding/ownership   pattern   especially   foreign   partners/
shareholders, foreign employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to
the   prevailing   Govt   of   India   policies   and   regulations   on   Foreign   Direct
Investment (FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable. 
Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  
Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company. 
Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel.
Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry
of Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).
Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their production
capacities) and technical expertise.
List of Testing and Support equipment’s 
ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification 
Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any) 
Capacity   and   capability   to   undertake   developmental   work   and   to   accept
attendant financial and commercial risks. 
Capacity/capability   to   market   the   product   through   the   marketing   network,
sales and service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 
PESO   and   DPIIT   license   for   explosive   handling   if   ToT   is   for   high   energy
Material, explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc
(if applicable). 
Under   taking   form   company   seeking   ToT   that   none   of   its   Directors,
Independent Directors, non-executive Directors, Key management personnel
are involved in any corrupt practices, unfair means and illegal activities. 
Details of the industrials license for defence manufacturing be provided by the
industry seeking ToTs.

 
    
