Compact Transhorizon Communication System (CTCS)

The   Compact   Transhorizon   Communication   System

(CTCS)  

is   a   large   hop   terrestrial   backhaul

communication   system   developed   by

 Defence

Electronics   Applications  Laboratory   (DEAL),   Dehradun

for ensuring high data rate connectivity to user station

and remote locations. This system can be used in the

remote locations where civil communication grid is not

present. It is very useful for rapid establishment of low

latency   high   data   rate   wireless   communication

backbone in beyond line of control. CTCS is useful for

establishing   transhorizon   connectivity   between   tactical

locations.   CTCS   system   consists   of   3   major

subsystems,   i.e.     CTCS   Radio   Unit,   CTCS   Antenna

assembly and alignment & pointing mechanism with light weight tripod. It can support

ranges up to 60 kms path lengths in Troposcatter mode and 100 km path length in Line

of sight (LoS) mode. CTCS link prediction software with integrated GIS data is included

in the system for link planning and link feasibility in offline mode.

1. 

Interested   companies/industries   are   requested   to   apply   against   this   EoI   to

following address:-

To,
The Director
Defence Electronics Applications Laboratory (DEAL)
Raipur Road, Dehradun – 248001
Phone No: 01352787224
Fax: 01352787265
Email ID: director.deal@gov.in

2.

 A copy of interest may be sent to the following address without any attachment:-

Copy to:- 

The Director 
Directorate Industry Interface and Technology Management (DIITM) 
Room No 447, DRDO Bhawan, DRDO HQrs, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi – 110011
Phone No: 01123013209/23015291
Fax No: 011-23793008
Email ID: diitm.hqr@gov.in

List of Support documents to be attached with EoI

(a)  Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian

Companies Act, as amended time to time)

 (b)  Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.

 (c)  Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years. 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

(g) 

Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period 

Details   of   shareholding/ownership   pattern   especially   foreign   partners/

shareholders,  foreign employees,  directors,  etc.  The  company  must  adhere to

the prevailing Govt of India policies and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment

(FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable. 

Annual budget for R&D during last three years. 

Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company.

 (h)  Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel.

 (i) 

Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of

Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any). 

(j) 

Availability   of   adequate   infrastructure   (List   of   machines   and   their   production

capacities) and technical expertise. 

List of Testing and Support equipment’s

ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification 

(k) 

 (l) 

(m)  Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any)

(n)  Capacity   and   capability   to   undertake   developmental   work   and   to   accept

attendant financial and commercial risks. 

(o) 

Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales

and service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality.

(p) 

PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy Material,

explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc. 

(q) 

Under taking form company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, Independent

Directors, non-executive Directors, Key management personnel are involved in

any corrupt practices, unfair means and illegal activities.

(r) 

Details of the industrials license for defence manufacturing be provided by the industry
seeking ToTs.

