 “B-II Propellant” 

B II Motor requires around 1 ton of composite propellant based on HTPB/ AP/AI having 
85%  of  solid  loading  and  ballistic,  mechanical  and  rheological  properties.  This  motor 
has  an  intricate  grain  geometry  and  special  casting  scheme  to  be  adopted  for  casting 
the propellant slurry. 

Propellant  composition  and  processing  technology  have  been  established  and  a 
number of motors have been processed and successfully evaluated. Now technology is 
ready for Transfer for regular production. 

Interested  companies/industries  are  requested  to  apply  against  this  EoI  to 

1. 
following address:- 

To, 

The Director 

High Energy Materials Research Laboratory (HEMRL), 

DRDO, Govt. of India, Ministry of Defence, 

Sutarwadi, Pune-411 021 

Email-director.hemrl@gov.in 

2. 

 A copy of interest may be sent to the following address without any attachment:- 

To,  

The Director, 

Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM), 

Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110 011 

Email-diitm.hqr@gov.in 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
List of Support documents to be attached with EoI 

(a)   Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian 

Companies Act, as amended time to time) 

 (b)   Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any. 

 (c)   Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.  

(d)  

Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period  

(e)   Details  of  shareholding/ownership  pattern  especially 

foreign  partners/ 
shareholders,  foreign  employees,  directors,  etc.  The  company  must  adhere  to 
the prevailing Govt of India policies and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment 
(FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable.  

(f)  

Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  

(g)   Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company. 

 (h)   Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel. 

 (i)   Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of 

Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).  

(j)  

Availability  of  adequate  infrastructure  (List  of  machines  and  their  production 
capacities) and technical expertise.  

(k)  

List of Testing and Support equipment’s 

 (l)  

ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification  

(m)   Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any) 

(n)   Capacity  and  capability  to  undertake  developmental  work  and  to  accept 

attendant financial and commercial risks.  

(o)   Capacity/capability  to  market  the  product  through  the  marketing  network,  sales 

and service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 

(p)   PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy Material, 

explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc.  

(q)   Under taking form company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, Independent 
Directors,  non-executive  Directors,  Key  management  personnel  are  involved  in 
any corrupt practices, unfair means and illegal activities. 

(r)   Details  of  the  industrials  license  for  defence  manufacturing  be  provided  by  the 

industry seeking ToTs. 

  
