DHWANI - Automated SONAR Trainer (DAST)

NPOL has designed and developed Dhwani Automated Sonar Trainer (DAST).
The system is fully automated so that the instructor can control the operation of
acoustic   tank   from   the   GUI.     This   helps   to   understand   the   sonar   working
principles   to   different   levels   of   naval   personal.     The   system   consist   of   fully
Automated Acoustic Tank and Data acquisition system of 20 channel with power
amplifier,   PC   and   an   LCD   screen.   The   system   is   possible   to   customize
experiments.     The   experiments   have   been   set   for   different   levels   like   Basic,
Intermediate   and  Advanced   which   cover   from   Sailors,   Inducting  officers   and
Offices.     The   experiments   are   done   with   200   KHz   sensors.     Different
experiments includes Active sonar, Passive Sonar, Bottom characteristics, Beam
pattern,   Beam   forming,   Doppler,   Different   types   of   waveforms,   effect   of
different signals, effect of materials, effect of aspects, UCS, etc.   

Interested   Industries   are   requested   to   forward   their   Expression   of
Interest (EoI) to Director NPOL, Kochi (with attachments of supporting
documents)   with   a   copy   to   Director   DIITM,   DRDO   HQ   (without
attachment) on following address:-

Director
Naval Physical & Oceanographic Laboratory
Thrikkakara, Kochi-682021
Phone : 0484-2424878
Fax : 0484-2424858
E-mail ID: director[dot]npol[at]gov[dot]in

Copy to

Director
Directorate of Industry Interface & technology Management (DIITM)
Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, DRDO HQrs, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110011
Phone: 011-23013209/23015291
Fax: 011-23793008
Email ID: diitm[dot]hqr[at]gov]dot]in

Page 1 of 2

List of Support documents to be attached with EoI 

a) Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated

as per Indian Companies Act, as amended time to time) 
b) Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any. 
c) Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years. 
d) Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period 
e) Details   of   shareholding/ownership   pattern   especially   foreign
partners/   shareholders,   foreign   employees,   directors,   etc.   The
company must adhere to the prevailing Govt of India policies and
regulations   on   Foreign   Direct   Investment   (FDI)/DIPP   norms   as
applicable. 

f) Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  
g) Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company. 
h) Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel. 
i) Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against
of   Ministry   of   Defence   orders,   Public   Sectors   and   Paramilitary
Forces, if any). 

j) Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their

production capacities) and technical expertise.

ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification 

k) List of Testing and Support equipment’s 
l)
m) Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any) 
n) Capacity  and  capability  to  undertake   developmental   work  and   to

accept attendant financial and commercial risks. 

o) Capacity/capability   to   market   the   product   through   the   marketing
network,   sales   and   service   network,   reliability   to   maintain
confidentiality. 

p) PESO and  DPIIT  license  for  explosive  handling  if  ToT  is  for  high
energy   Material,   explosives,   propellants,   and   component/   system
dealing with it etc (if applicable). 

q) Under taking form company seeking ToT that none of its Directors,
Independent  Directors,  non-executive  Directors,  Key  management
personnel are involved in any corrupt practices, unfair means and
illegal activities. 

r) Details   of   the   industrials   license   for   defence   manufacturing   be

provided by the industry seeking ToTs.

Page 2 of 2

