Light Weight Add-on composite armour for Wheeled Armoured
Platform

DMRL has developed light weight add-on composite armour for WhAP 8x8 vehicle.
The   developed   add-on   armour   provides  protection   against   STANAG   4569   threat
Level-II   &   III   in   conjunction   with   the   vehicle   structure.     The   developed   armour
technology including materials, manufacturing methodologies, testing, etc is totally
indigenous. The technology developed is with modular concept, so that the vehicle
protection   levels   can   be   modified   in   future   without   undergoing   any   engineering
changes   in   vehicle.     DMRL   has   established   required   test   methods   and   also
production line with Indian industry to meet volume requirements. Limited number of
sets  have   been   manufactured   and   integrated   on   WhAP   8x8   and   other   platforms
which   are   accepted   by   the   users.   This   technology   is   offered   for   ToT   to   more
industries.

Wheeled Armoured Platform (WhAP) 8x8  &  Add-on armour components

Interested Industries are requested to forward their Expression of Interest (EoI) to
Director DMRL, Hyderabad (with attachments of supporting documents) with a copy
to Director DIITM, DRDO HQ (without attachment) on following address:-

To
Director
Defence Metallurgical Research Laboratory
Kanchanbagh P.O.,
Hyderabad-500058

Phone : 040-2434 0681
Fax : 040-24340683
Email : director[dot]dmrl[at]gov[dot]in

Copy to:

Director
Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM)
Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi – 110 011
Phone: 011-23013209/23015291
Fax: 011-23793008
Email: diitm[dot]hqr[at]gov]dot]in

   
List of Support documents to be attached with EoI

a) Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian

Companies Act, as amended time to time) 

b) Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any. 

c) Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years. 

d)

Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period 

e) Details   of   shareholding/ownership   pattern   especially   foreign   partners/
shareholders, foreign employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to
the prevailing Govt of India policies and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment
(FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable. 

f) Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  

g) Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company. 

h) Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel. 

i) Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of

Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any). 

j) Availability   of   adequate   infrastructure   (List   of   machines   and   their   production

capacities) and technical expertise.

k) List of Testing and Support equipment’s 

l)

ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification 

m) Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any) 

n) Capacity   and   capability   to   undertake   developmental   work   and   to   accept

attendant financial and commercial risks. 

o) Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales

and service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 

p) PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy Material,
explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc (if applicable).

q) Under taking form company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, Independent

Directors, non-executive Directors, Key management personnel are involved in
any corrupt practices, unfair means and illegal activities. 

r) Details of the industrials license for defence manufacturing be provided by the

industry seeking ToTs.

 
    
