High Explosive filling PBHE-101 for Air to Surface Missile Warhead 

Explosive  system  for  the  air  to  surface  missile  warhead  comprising  main  charge  filling 
andbooster charge was developed at HEMRL. HE composition of insensitive in nature, has beenused in 
the  warhead  and  suitable  pressed  booster  pellet  was  also  developed  for  the  explosivetrain.  The 
development  of  main  filling  (Cast  cure  based)  and  filling  methodology  in  warheadis  completed  and 
meeting the required performance lethality at the desired distances againstthe surface targets. 

All  the  tests  of  warhead  including  explosive  system  are  completed.  The  technology  for 
theexplosive system of the missile warhead is developed and ready to be transferred to theinterested 
industries for bulk production. 

Developed technology has met all performance parameters during evaluation trials andready to 
be transferred for production and is equivalent to global state of art. All the rawmaterials and process 
equipment required for the preparation of explosive filling are available indigenously. 

1. 

 Interested companies/industries are requested to apply against this EoI to following address:- 

To, 

Director 
High Energy Materials Research Laboratory (HEMRL) 
DRDO, Govt. of India, Ministry of Defence 
Sutarwadi, Pune-411 021 
Email-director.hemrl@gov.in 

2.  A copy of interest may be sent to the following address without any attachment:- 

The Director 
Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM) 
Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110 011 
Email-diitm.hqr@gov.in 

List of Support documents to be attached with EoI 

(a) Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian Companies Act, as 
amended time to time) 

(b) Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any. 

(c) Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.  

(d) Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period  

(e)  Details  of  shareholding/ownership  pattern  especially  foreign  partners/shareholders,  foreign 
employees,  directors,  etc.  The  company  must  adhere  to  the  prevailing  Govt  of  India  policies  and 
regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable.  

 
 
 
 
 
(f) Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  

(g) Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company. 

(h) Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel. 

(i)  Record  of  past  performance  (e.g.,  Supply  orders  executed  against  of  Ministry  of  Defence  orders, 
Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).  

(j) Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their production capacities) and technical 
expertise.  

(k) List of Testing and Support equipment’s 

(l) ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification  

(m) Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any) 

(n)  Capacity  and  capability  to  undertake  developmental  work  and  to  accept  attendant  financial  and 
commercial risks.  

(o)  Capacity/capability  to  market  the  product  through  the  marketing  network,  sales  and  service 
network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 

(p)  PESO  and  DPIIT  license  for  explosive  handling  if  ToT  is  for  high  energy  Material,  explosives, 
propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc.  

(q)  Under  taking  form  company  seeking  ToT  that  none  of  its  Directors,  Independent  Directors,  non-
executive Directors, Key management personnel are involved in any corrupt practices, unfair means and 
illegal activities. 

(r) Details of the industrials license for defence manufacturing be provided by the industry seeking ToTs. 

