Automatic Chemical Agent Detection and Alarm (ACADA) 

Chemical Warfare Agents (CWAs) are man-made highly toxic chemicals that act rapidly 

on exposure and sometimes lethal even at low levels. Ion Mobility Spectrometry (IMS) 

based  detectors are used  to  detect these  CWAs.  DRDE  Gwalior developed Twin  tube 

IMS detector (called as Automatic Chemical Agent Detection and Alarm/ACADA) is an 

advanced  system  for  simultaneous  detection  of  all  CWAs  as  well  as  Toxic  Industrial 

Chemicals  (TICs)  and  can  be  used  for  continuous  monitoring.  ACADA  contains  two 

highly sensitive IMS cells for continuous detection and simultaneous monitoring. This is 

a  fixed  point  man  portable  CWA  detector  with  battery  and  can  also  be  mounted  on 

vehicle.  It  has  provision  of  Audio  &  Visual  alarm.  Detector  has  Remote  alarm  unit  for 

receiving data at central monitoring station. It can detect very low concentrations of the 

agents  with  in  a  minute.  The  detector  comes  with  a  pre-programmed  chemical  data 

library, which is expandable and can be updated based on user's requirements. 

Interested  companies/industries  are  requested  to  apply  against  this  EoI  to  following 

address:- 

To, 
The Director 
Defence Research & Development Establishment (DRDE) 
Jhansi Road, Gwalior- 474 002 
Phone No – 07512341550 
Fax No - 07512341148 
Email-director.drde@gov.in 

A copy of interest may be sent to the following address without any attachment:- 

Copy to:-  

The Director  
Directorate Industry Interface and Technology Management (DIITM)  
Room No 447, DRDO Bhawan, DRDO HQrs, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi – 110011 
Phone No: 01123013209/23015291 
Fax No: 011-23793008 
Email ID: diitm.hqr@gov.in 

List of Supporting documents to be attached with EoI 

(a)   Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be  incorporated as per Indian 

Companies Act, as amended time to time) 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b)   Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any. 

 (c)   Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.  

 (d)  

Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period  

 (e)   Details  of  shareholding/ownership  pattern  especially 

foreign  partners/ 

shareholders,  foreign  employees,  directors,  etc.  The  company  must  adhere  to 

the prevailing Govt of India policies and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment 

(FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable.  

(f)   Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  

 (g)   Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company. 

 (h)   Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel. 

 (i)   Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of 

Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).  

 (j)   Availability  of  adequate  infrastructure  (List  of  machines  and  their  production 

capacities) and technical expertise.  

 (k)   List of Testing and Support equipment’s 

 (l)  

ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification  

 (m)   Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any) 

(n)   Capacity  and  capability  to  undertake  developmental  work  and  to  accept 

attendant financial and commercial risks.  

 (o)   Capacity/capability  to  market  the  product  through  the  marketing  network,  sales 

and service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 

 (p)   PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy Material, 

explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc.  

 (q)   Under taking form company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, Independent 

Directors,  non-executive  Directors,  Key  management  personnel  are  involved  in 

any corrupt practices, unfair means and illegal activities. 

 (r)   Details of the industrials license for defence manufacturing be provided by the 

industry seeking ToTs. 

