Ceramic Faced Composite Armour Panels for Advanced Light Helicopter (ALH) 

Introduction 

The  Advanced  Light  Helicopter  (ALH)  is  designed 

and  developed  by  Hindustan  Aeronautical  Limited 
faced  composite  armour 
(HAL), 

India.  Ceramic 

protection panels have been designed and developed 
by  DMSRDE  for  ALH  (Army  Variant)  to  provide 

protection  to  aircrews  and  critical  parts  of  helicopter 
against 12.7 mm API bullet hits. 

Technical Specification of Armour 

Dual hardness panel armours consisting of hard ceramic striking face and aramid/epoxy 
laminates  as  backing  are  more  efficient  than  monolithic  armors.  Ceramic  faced 

composite  armour  panel  is  significantly  efficient  in  decreasing  the  penetrability  of  a 
conical  striker.  Alumina  is one of the most  readily  available and  cost-effective  material 

that  has  a  high  level  of  physical  properties,  which  is  used  as  ceramic  face  in  the 
composites.  The  ceramic  surface  being  used  as  impacting  surface  receives  the  initial 

impact of the projectile. Its function is to destroy the head of the projectile progressively 
as it attempts to penetrate the composite structure. A major part of the impact energy is 

dissipated during this first stage. The second stage material is a ductile base laminate 
made of composite material. It’s main function is to absorb the residual impact energy 
caused  by  the  fragmented  parts  of  the  projectile  till  reaches  to  complete  halt.  The 
absorption results in elastic and plastic deformation of the ductile material. The weight 

of dual hardness panel armor is less than armour made only of steel.  

To  meet  the  technical  specification  requirement,  developed  armour  panels  were 
subjected  to  Strength,  Environmental,  Shock,  Vibration,  Immersion,  Flame  resistance, 
Low  &  high  temperature  stability,  Spall  adhesion  and  Ballistic  tests  for  airworthiness 
clearance before induction into the helicopter and found fully capable to provide ballistic 
protection. 

Status and Application 

Induction  of  the  developed  ceramic  faced  composite  armour  panels  on  army  version 
ALH  is  completed.  Carriage  and  flight  trials  are  conducted  &  found  satisfactory.  
Provisional  clearance  for  composite  armour  panels  for  ALH  is  obtained  from  RCMA 
(Helicopter).  Subsequently,  clearance  for  bulk  production  of  the  developed  ceramic 

faced composite armour panels is obtained CEMILAC. 

Page 1 of 3 

 
 
 
Interested  Industries  are  requested  to  forward  their  Expression  of  Interest  (EoI)  to 
Director DMSRDE, Kanpur (with attachments of supporting documents) with a copy of 
Director DIITM, DRDO HQ (without attachment) on following address:- 

To, 
Director 
Defence Materials and Stores Research & Development Establishment (DMSRDE) 
DRDO, Ministry of Defence, Government of India 
PO DMSRDE, GT Road, 
Kanpur-208013 
Phone : (0512) 2451759-78 
Fax : 0512-2450404/ 2404774 

E-mail ID : director[dot]dmsrde[at]gov[dot]in 

Copy to 

Director 
Directorate of Industry Interface & technology Management (DIITM) 
Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, DRDO HQrs, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110011 
Phone: 011-23013209/23015291 
Fax: 011-23793008 

Email: diitm[dot]hqr[at]gov]dot]in 

List of Support documents to be attached with EoI  

a)  Memorandum  and  Articles  of  Association  (Should  be  incorporated  as  per  Indian 

Companies Act, as amended time to time)  

b)  Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.  

c)  Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.  

d) 

Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period  

e)  Details of shareholding/ownership pattern especially foreign partners/ shareholders, 
foreign employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt 
of India policies and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)/DIPP norms as 
applicable.  

f)  Annual budget for R&D during last three years.   

g)  Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company.  

h)  Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel.  

i)  Record  of  past  performance  (e.g.,  Supply  orders  executed  against  of  Ministry  of 

Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).  

j)  Availability  of  adequate  infrastructure  (List  of  machines  and  their  production 

capacities) and technical expertise. 

k)  List of Testing and Support equipment’s  

l) 

ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification  

m)  Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any)  

Page 2 of 3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
n)  Capacity  and  capability  to  undertake  developmental  work  and  to  accept  attendant 

financial and commercial risks.  

o)  Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales and 

service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality.  

p)  PESO  and  DPIIT  license  for  explosive  handling  if  ToT  is for  high  energy  Material, 
explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc (if applicable).  

q)  Under  taking  form  company  seeking  ToT  that  none  of  its  Directors,  Independent 

Directors, non-executive Directors, Key management personnel are involved in any 
corrupt practices, unfair means and illegal activities.  

r)  Details  of  the  industrials  license  for  defence  manufacturing  be  provided  by  the 

industry seeking ToTs. 

Page 3 of 3 

 
 
