 Technology for Production of High Explosive Composition and its filling in 40mm x 

46mm HEAP & HEDP Grenades for UBGL/ MGL 

Description of Technology: 

Two  types  of  40  mm  Grenade  ammunitions  namely  HEAP  and  HEDP  are  required  to 

destroy  targets  using  kill  mechanisms  viz  armour  penetration  and  blast  &  fragmentation 

respectively.  To  achieve  respective  QRs  (The  pressed  composition  PBXPW-2  developed 

possesses  VOD  of  8200  m/s  and  density  of  1.64  g/cc  for  HEAP  grenade  and  the  pressed 

composition PBXPW-3 developed for HEDP grenade possesses VOD of 8400 m/s and density 

of 1.68 g/cc), high explosive compositions and their filling methodology in  these ammunitions 

have  been  designed  and  developed  by  DRDO.  The  high  explosive  system  in  both  the 

ammunitions  consists  of  main  charge  and  booster.  Main  charge  consists  of  RDX  based  HE 

composition in case of HEAP and HMX based in case of HEDP. Booster is based on PETN in 

both cases. 

HE compositions and their filling methodologies in these munitions have been finalized 

to realize the performance lethality at the given distances in terms of blast, fragmentation and 

penetration  in  MS  targets  respectively.  The  pressing  technology  has  been  developed  for  the 

main charges of the ammunitions and for boosters.  Present ToT is for both the ammunitions 

namely HEAP (PBXPW-2) and HEDP (PBXPW-3).  

All  the  development  activities  such  as  establishment  of  high  explosive  preparation 

technology,  filling  methodologies,  all  the  performance  evaluation  trials,  dynamic trials  of  both 

the ammunitions have been fully completed meeting all the QRs.  

All the raw materials and equipment required are available indigenously.  

Interested  companies/industries  are  requested  to  apply  against  this  EoI  to  following 

1. 
address:- 

To, 

The Director 

High Energy Materials Research Laboratory (HEMRL), 

DRDO, Govt. of India, Ministry of Defence, 

Sutarwadi, Pune-411 021 

Email-director.hemrl@gov.in 

 
  
 
 
 
 
2. 

 A copy of interest may be sent to the following address without any attachment:- 

To,  

The Director, 

Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM), 

Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110 011 

Email-diitm.hqr@gov.in 

List of Support documents to be attached with EoI 

(a)   Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian Companies Act, 

as amended time to time) 

 (b)   Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any. 

 (c)   Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.  

(d)  

Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period  

(e)  

Details  of  shareholding/ownership  pattern  especially  foreign  partners/  shareholders,  foreign 
employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt of India policies and 
regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable.  

(f)  

Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  

(g)  

Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company. 

 (h)   Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel. 

 (i)  

(j)  

Record  of  past  performance  (e.g.,  Supply  orders  executed  against  of  Ministry  of  Defence 
orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).  

Availability  of  adequate  infrastructure  (List  of  machines  and  their  production  capacities)  and 
technical expertise.  

(k)  

List of Testing and Support equipment’s 

 (l)  

ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification  

(m)   Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any) 

(n)   Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept attendant financial and 

commercial risks.  

(o)  

(p)  

(q)  

Capacity/capability  to  market  the  product  through  the  marketing  network,  sales  and  service 
network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 

PESO  and  DPIIT  license for  explosive  handling  if  ToT  is  for  high  energy  Material,  explosives, 
propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc.  

Under taking form company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, Independent Directors, non-
executive  Directors,  Key  management  personnel  are  involved  in  any  corrupt  practices,  unfair 
means and illegal activities. 

(r)  

Details of the industrials license for defence manufacturing be provided by the industry seeking 
ToTs. 

