ZnTe single crystal growth for broadband Terahertz applications  

                    Single crystal ZnTe substrates are used for broadband THz generation and detection. THz 
are  electromagnetic  waves  lying  between  microwave  and  infrared  region  which  are  invisible,  non-
invasive, non-ionizing and biologically safe and offer higher resolution than other safe wavelengths. 
In addition, the interaction of THz with various materials in terms of molecular vibrations and carrier 
dynamics  bestows  it  with  a  unique  ability  to  probe  and  provide  material  spectroscopic  information 
which  is  beyond  the  limits  of  conventional  systems.    Moreover,  THz  transparency  of  most  of  non-
metallic, plastic materials render its use in imaging of concealed items. Hence, wide range of possible 
THz  applications  in  various  fields,  such  as  spectroscopy,  imaging,  sensing  or  scanning,  quality 
control,  wireless  communication,  and  basic  sciences  have  started  burgeoning  which  has  stimulated 
extensive research in different frontiers of THz worldwide. However,  the realization of THz devices 
and  systems  is  plagued  by  non-availability  of  efficient  terahertz  source  and  detectors. Amongst  the 
various  techniques  for  THz  generation  and  detection;  broadband  THz  generation  using  optical 
rectification of ultrafast laser pulses and THz detection using electro-optic sampling using non-linear 
crystals have been one the simplest yet fast and reliable technique used for broadband THz generation 
and detection. ZnTe owing to its high non-linear susceptibility, high electro-optic coefficient and low 
THz  absorption  is  the  most  extensively  used  non-linear  crystal  material  in  various  commercial THz 
systems for broadband THz generation and detection. 

With the research on Terahertz burgeoning in both academia and industry in the country; the demand 
for  high  quality  ZnTe  substrates  is  expected  to  rise  significantly  in  near  future.  Presently,  ZnTe 
substrates  for  THz  applications  are  not  available  within  the  country  and  are  being  imported  at 
exorbitantly  high  cost  by  various  users  in  country  involved  in  THz  research  and  development  like 
TIFR, IITs, IISER, NISER, NPL and many other institutes of national importance. Typically, a 10 x 10 
mm2  (110)  ZnTe  substrate  costs  ~  1800  €  with  the  cost  increasing  exponentially  both  with  the 
substrate size and thickness. Moreover, the cost of high resistivity (≥ 104 Ω-cm) (110) ZnTe substrates 
is still higher. Keeping the above points under consideration, SSPL has developed the complete single 
crystal  growth  and  substrate  fabrication  facility  for  development  of  (110)  oriented  ZnTe  substrates. 
Typical technological parameters/specifications of SSPL developed ZnTe substrates are: 

Orientation 
Size 

Thickness 

Resistivity 
THz 
detection range 

generation/ 

(110) ± 0.25o 
10 x 10 mm2 both sides polished  
(Up  to  18x18  mm2  substrate  have  been  fabricated 
presently) 
200  microns 
achievable) 
≥ 105 Ω-cm 
0.1 to 3 THz  
(Higher  THz  ranges  possible  with  thinner  ZnTe 
substrates) 

to  3  mm  (higher 

thickness  also 

SSPL  fabricated  ZnTe  substrates  have  been  extensively  tested  for  THz  characteristics  (THz 
transmission, THz detection and THz generation) at TIFR, Mumbai  and NISER,  Bhubaneshwar and 
were found to perform exceptionally well in comparison to imported ZnTe substrates.  

 
 
