MOBILE STATION FOR PERSONNEL MONITORING (MSPM) SYSTEM 

Introduction:  MSPM  System  is  a  transportable  Gamma  Portal  Monitor  which  is  used  for 
rapid  screening  of  personnel  with  respect  to  radiation  contamination  during  nuclear  or 
radiological  emergency.    The  system  can  also  be  used  at  entry  and  exit  of  important 
installations to interrupt the unauthorized movement of radiation source. The system utilizes 
six plastic scintillator detectors mounted on all the four sides of the portal (two each on left & 
right and one each on top & bottom). The user can set the monitoring mode (walk through or 
programmable counting time. The system continuously acquires the counts and monitors the 
background  radiation.  The  data  is  displayed  on  the  front  panel  touch  LCD.  The  system 
generates an alarm when the counts exceed the preset alarm values. The instrument can work 
in  standalone  mode  however  a  remote  control  station  has  also  been  developed.  The  counts 
and alarm data can be transferred via Ethernet or wireless RF communication. The image of 
the occupant can be seen at the remote control station and image can be captured in case of 
contamination and corresponding data can be stored for further analysis. It is equipped with a 
rechargeable  battery.  The  complete  system  is  modular,  can  be  quickly  set  up  and  can  be 
packed inside a transportation case. 

Salient Features:   

  Radiation Detector: Six Plastic Scintillator cylindrical sensor rods (diameter: 5cm  & 

for 

length 50 cm) Each coupled with PMT having inbuilt high voltage and pre amplifier. 
Sensitivity: 2µCi of 137Cs under ambient background condition  

 
  Monitoring Modes: Walk-Through and Stop & Count (1 to 9 second programmable)  
  Alarm, Display & Controls: Audio as well as visual LED indicators, Display of signal 
counts 
all  
       detectors  simultaneously,  Adjustable  radiation  alarm  level,  signal  &  background 
counting interval etc. 
 
 
  Remote  Control  and  display  for  centralized  viewing  of  portal  monitor  operations 
through Ethernet/ RF 
  Weight: 50 kg approx (Without battery and carrying case) 
 
 
  Modular, Transportable, Self-contained, quick and easy set up (Approx. 15 minutes) 

Portal Construction: PVC/HDPE/POM cylindrical enclosure, SS base with wheels.  
Pedestrian opening: 185 x 75 cm (H x W) approx 

Power Supply: 230 VAC as well as Battery operated (8 hrs battery backup) 
Integrated Camera for image capturing 

MSPM System with Remote Control 
Station and Transportation Case 

Application:    Screening  of  personnel  for  radiation  contamination  during  nuclear  or 
radiological emergency Armed Forces, Disaster Management Agencies, Airport and Strategic 
Installations 
Status:  Prototype has been developed and tested.  

 
 
 
 
