Technology for manufacturing of PBX Composition and its filling in Torpedo Warhead 

Recent  technological  advances  in  the  materials  and  design  of  explosive  ordnance  are  making 

possible the development of a new range of munitions termed Insensitive Munitions (IM) which 

are less vulnerable than existing weapons when subjected to accidental stimuli. Such munitions 

are  less  sensitive  than  their  predecessors to  extreme  but  credible environments  such as  heat, 

shock or impact and remain effective in their intended  application. Introduction of IM compliant 

stores  into  services  will  enhance  the  survivability  of  munitions,  minimize  the  risk  of  injury  to 

personnel  and  provide  more  cost  effective  and  efficient  transport,  potential  for  increased 

munitions density in land limited storage areas and safer handling of munitions. Development of 

less  sensitive  explosive  compositions  requires  use  of  materials  which  desensitize  the  overall 

composition. Polymer bonded explosives (PBX) binder based explosives offer such a solution to 

these  problems.  Polymer  bonded  explosive  (PBX)  is  a  composite  material  in  which  solid 

explosive  is  dispersed  in  a  polymer  matrix.  Cast  PBX  charges  containing  high  explosive  and 

binder find applications in fragmenting charges, shaped charges, blast charges and underwater 

charges.  HEMRL  has  developed  various  less  sensitive  PBX  compositions  which  resulted  in 

successful development of explosive filling for various Naval systems.  

Application areas  

PBHE  102  composition  developed  by  HEMRL  has  been  accepted  as  main  filling  for  torpedo 

warhead based on performance requirements and safety characteristics of the warhead.    

The warhead is designed for use against surface and underwater targets. 

All the trials of the system have been completed successfully in association with certification 
agency and product has been accepted for induction. All the raw materials and process machinery 
for the preparation of explosive composition and filling of warhead system are indigenous. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Contact Details 

Interested companies/industries are requested to apply against this EoI through email or by DAK to 
following address:- 

To, 

Director 

High Energy Materials Research Laboratory 

Govt. of India, Ministry of Defence 

Pune-411 021 

Email-director.hemrl@gov.in 

Copy to:- 

The Director 

Directorate of Industry Interface & technology Management (DIITM) 

Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110 011 

Email-diitm.hqr@gov.in 

List of Supporting documents to be attached with EoI 

(a)  Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian Companies 

Act, as amended time to time) 

 (b)  Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any. 

 (c)   Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.  

(d)  

Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period  

(e)   Details of shareholding/ownership pattern especially foreign partners/ shareholders, foreign 
employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt of India policies 
and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable.  

(f)  

Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  

(g)   Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company. 

 (h)   Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel. 

 (i)   Record  of  past  performance  (e.g.,  Supply  orders  executed  against  of  Ministry  of  Defence 

orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).  

(j)  

Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their production capacities) and 
technical expertise.  

(k)  

List of Testing and Support equipment’s 

 
 
 (l)  

ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification  

(m)   Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any) 

(n)   Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept attendant financial 

and commercial risks.  

(o)   Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales and service 

network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 

(p)   PESO  and  DPIIT  license  for  explosive  handling  if  ToT  is  for  high  energy  Material, 

explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc.  

(q)   Under taking form company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, Independent Directors, 
non-executive Directors, Key management personnel are involved in any corrupt practices, 
unfair means and illegal activities. 

(r)   Details  of  the  industrials  license  for  defence  manufacturing  be  provided  by  the  industry 

seeking ToTs. 

 
 
 
