Ready- to- eat Chicken Khakhra 

Consumer  demand  for  healthy  food  products  has  increased  in  the  past  decades. 

Convenience foods category needs to provide healthy and tasty options to the consumers as 

the  lifestyle  and  working  pattern  of  today’s  consumer  leaves  them  with  very  less  time  for 

cooking, etc. Ready-to-eat category of convenience foods mainly include snack items such as 

biscuits, crackers, crisp bread, chips, extruded products to name a few. One concern for such 

on-the-go products is their nutritional composition. They are mainly high in fat, low in fibre 

and  protein.  Any  improvement  in  this  area  will  be  beneficial  for  today’s  health-conscious 

consumer.  Main  concern  of  the  on-the-go  products  is  that  they  provide  taste  and  satiety  in 

between  the  main  meals.  Hence,  the  food  industry  must  make  a  conscious  choice  while 

choosing to develop products 

Chicken khakhra/chicken- wheat crisps were developed as a convenient ready-to-eat light 
weight,  fibre  rich  product.  The  developed  product  can  be  compared  to  the  crisp-bread, 
crackers and matzo products from the western countries and khakhra from India. One main 

characteristic  for  these  products  is  the  low  moisture  content,  which  directly  effects  their 

crispness or hardness.  

Resistant  starch  is  a  new  type  of  low  calorie  (2  kcal/g)  functional  food  ingredient 

providing  variety  of  health  benefits  to  consumers.  It  benefits  special  groups  of  people, 

meanwhile  the  ordinary  consumers  can  also  gain  health  benefits.  This  ingredient  has  been 

incorporated in various foods and found to be sensorially accepted by consumers.  

The  formulation  of  chicken  khakhra  with  incorporation  of  functional  starch  makes  it  a 

fibre rich low GI product, good source of protein for non-vegetarian category of consumers. 

The khakhra was standardized in the form of mini khakhra suitable for consumption as a 

snack product.  It contains about 20% resistant starch and protein content 14-16%.  It has a 

minimum shelf life of 6 months without addition of antioxidants or preservatives.  

1 

 
 
 
