A Brief Write-up with Photo on 
Technology for Fused Silica Ceramic Cores Used for Making Hollow Nickel-Base Superalloy Cast 
Parts of Aero Gas Turbine Engines 

1. 

Description of Technology 

Nickel-base  superalloy  parts  such  as  blades,  vanes  and  rotors  are  used  in  hot  sections  of  aero  gas 
turbine  engines.  These  parts  are  often  hollow  and  contain  serpentine  internal  cooling  channels  which  are 
difficult to be generated through machining. These channels are typically formed by utilizing one or more 
appropriate ceramic cores in the investment cast parts. The embedded ceramic cores are then removed by 
mechanical  or  chemical  methods.  After  their  removal,  an  internal  cooling  channel  having  the  same 
dimensions and shape of the ceramic core is left behind inside the component. For achieving the required 
cooling  channel  configuration  in  the  cast  components,  the  ceramic  core  must  have  sufficient  strength  to 
withstand wax injection pressure during pattern making as well as metallostatic pressure during casting. It 
must be also be dimensionally and chemically stable up to casting temperature and impart suitable surface 
finish to the channel walls after casting operation. In addition to these attributes, the core must also be easily 
removable without affecting the cast metal part. The choice for material for core making is very limited due 
to  the  above  requirements.  Fused  silica  based  ceramic  core  materials  have  been  found  suitable  for 
investment cast superalloy parts.  

DMRL  has  developed  the  technology  of  silica  core  making  through  ceramic  injection  moulding 
(CIM) process. This process is suitable for production of complex ceramic cores in large numbers. In this 
process, ceramic powder is mixed with polymeric binders, plastisizer and lubricants to get CIM feedstock. 
Then feedstock is injected into die cavity at a high pressure using CIM machine to get green ceramic core. 
The green cores are then debindered and sintered to get the desired properties. The dimensional compliance 
of DMRL-developed cores is within ±0.3 mm.  

DMRL has developed following capabilities as a part of ceramic core technology.  

a)  Designing of ceramic core die suitable for CIM. DMRL can design die blocks, fixtures, setter 

gauges etc from component drawing. 

b)  DMRL  has  developed  indigenous  vendors  for  machinery and tools for production of ceramic 

cores like sigma mixer, ceramic injection moulding machine and top hat furnace etc. 

c)  CIM feedstock formulation and preparation methodologies  
d)  CIM  and sintering techniques of green cores 
e)  Quality control and inspection technique for ceramic feedstock and sintered ceramic cores 
f)  Removals of ceramic cores from investment cast metal parts by caustic leaching process 

2. 

Application Areas 

It can be used in aerospace, industrial, healthcare, sports and automotive sectors. 

3. 

USP of the Technology 

DMRL technology can be used for producing high precision complex ceramic cores needed for aero 
engine components such as blades and vanes. This technology is currently unavailable with any indigenous 
source.  DMRL’s  technology  has  been  tested  for  its  reliability  and  consistency  in  producing  high  quality 
ceramic cores. 

Page 1 of 2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1: High

h pressure n

nozzle guide

e vane (HPN

NGV) core. 

Fig. 2: Low

w pressure 

 nozzle guid

de vane (LPN

NGV) core. 

Length = 18
L

80mm 

Fig. 3: Shro

ouded low p

pressure tur

rbine blade (

(LPTB) core.. 

2 
Page 2 of 2

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
