Spherical RDX (SRDX) 

High  Energy  Materials Research Laboratory  (HEMRL),  Pune,  under Defence  Research 

&  Development  Organisation  (DRDO)  has  developed  the  technology  for  production  of 

SRDX.  SRDX  is  a  white  crystalline  high  energy  material  and  has  application  in  High 

Explosive  and  Rocket  Propellant  formulations.  Unlike  conventional  RDX,  the  use  of 

SRDX  will  reduce  the  vulnerability  of  high  explosives  /propellant  formulation  towards 

unintended  shock  stimuli.  Owing  to  improved  crystal morphology,  the  use of  SRDX  will 

also  improve  the  process-abilities  of  both  high  explosives  and  propellant  formulation. 

Preparation  of  SRDX  is  developed  by  adopting  a  specially  designed  chemical  erosion 

technology.  Process  parametric  conditions  are  optimised  for  desired  particle  size  and 

morphology.  SRDX  prepared  in  this  process  is  subjected  for  analysis  and  explosive 

characterization. The melting point of SRDX was observed to be about 205 ± 1 °C. The 

shock sensitivity of PBX compositions using this grade of SRDX results in improvement 

of shock sensitivity from 24 kbar to 48kbar. The technology is ready to be transferred to 

the suitable Govt./Pvt. agencies as per the prevailing policy and procedure of DRDO.  

Contact Details 

Interested companies/industries are requested to apply against this EoI through email or 
by DAK to following address:- 

To, 

The Director 

High Energy Materials Research Laboratory 

Govt. of India, Ministry of Defence 

Pune-411 021 

Email-director.hemrl@gov.in 

Copy to, 

The Director 

Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM) 

Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110 011 

Email-diitm.hqr@gov.in 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Spherical RDX (SRDX) 

List of Support documents to be attached with EoI 

(a)   Memorandum  and  Articles  of  Association  (Should  be  incorporated  as  per  Indian 

Companies Act, as amended time to time) 

 (b) 

 Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any. 

 (c)   Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.  

(d)  

Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period  

(e)   Details  of  shareholding/ownership  pattern  especially 

foreign  partners/ 
shareholders, foreign employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the 
prevailing  Govt  of  India  policies  and  regulations  on  Foreign  Direct  Investment 
(FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable.  

(f)  

Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  

(g)   Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company. 

 (h) 

 Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel. 

 (i)   Record  of  past  performance  (e.g.,  Supply  orders  executed  against  of  Ministry  of 

Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).  

(j)  

Availability  of  adequate  infrastructure  (List  of  machines  and  their  production 
capacities) and technical expertise.  

(k) 

List of Testing and Support equipment’s 

 (l)  

ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification  

(m)   Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any) 

(n)   Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept attendant 

financial and commercial risks.  

(o)   Capacity/capability  to  market  the  product  through  the  marketing  network,  sales 

and service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 

(p)   PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy Material, 

explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc.  

(q)   Under taking form  company  seeking ToT  that  none  of  its  Directors,  Independent 
Directors,  non-executive  Directors,  Key  management  personnel  are  involved  in 
any corrupt practices, unfair means and illegal activities. 

(r)   Details  of  the  industrials  license  for  defence  manufacturing  be  provided  by  the 

industry seeking ToTs. 

 
  
 
