Expression of Interest (EoI) for Rotary Electro Mechanical 

Actuator (REMA-20P) for project 1404 

Technology Overview 

1.  In order to improve the accuracy of Pinaka Multi Barrel Rocket Launching system 

(MBRLS),  the  GNC  kit  (guidance,  navigation  and  control)  is  integrated  to  the 

unguided  Pinaka  Rocket  system.  The  Rotary  Electro  Mechanical  Actuation 

System (REMAs) being one of the key component of GNC kit plays a vital role in 

achieving the accuracy of the system. Due to low power requirement and acute 

space  limitations,  the  Rotary  Electro  Mechanical  Actuation  System  is  preferred.!

The  Electro  Mechanical  Actuator  used  here  is  used  as  a  module  and  has 

minimum number of components compared to other types such as hydraulic or 

pneumatic.  

2.  !Further,  the  Actuation  System  (REMAs)  has  to  fulfil  the  requirements  of  being 

able to function reliably in a typical environment involving adverse and extreme 

climatic  conditions,  field  transportation  and  storage  conditions  imposing  severe 

vibrations, bumps, mechanical shocks and extreme temperature conditions. 

3.  So, the Actuation System (REMA) was designed and developed keeping in mind 

the space constraints along with harsh environmental operating conditions. The 

REMA  Actuators  were  successfully  flight  tested  in  developmental  trials  and 

demonstrated the satisfactory performance. 

Terms and Conditions 

1. 

Processing of EOI applications shall start after 10 days from the date of publication on 

DRDO website.  

2. 

3. 

Company turnover should be greater than Rs 20 Cr per annum. 

Documents to be submitted with EoI. The company must provide details about company 

and documents in support of their claim as per Appendix- A. Any additional documents 

as  required  by  DRDO  shall  be  sought  based  on  request  received  from  the  interested 

industries.  

4. 

The industry should essentially have previous experience in Fabrication, Assembly and 

Testing of Electro Mechanical Actuation System for Aerospace or Missile Systems.  

 
 
 
 
 
5. 

The  industry  should  essentially  have  previous  &  on-going  experience  of  delivery  of 

above systems with clearance by Defence QA agencies like DGQA, MSQA/R&QA, RCI, 

CQA. 

6. 

The  Industry  should  also  have  skilled  manpower,  established  quality  management 

system, willingness and capability to setup specialized infrastructure (Load test facilities, 

FRA, Recorder, Power Supplies etc). 

7. 

The Other Terms and conditions for industry seeking ToT are the following:-  

a)  Submission of EOI does not guarantee ToT to applicant industry. 

b)  The other terms and conditions are as per the ‘DRDO Policy and Procedures for 

ToT’ for Category ‘A’ mentioned at 

https://www.drdo.gov.in/sites/default/files/inline-

files/DRDO%20Policy%20%26%20Procedure%20%20for%20ToT.pdf at DRDO 

website.  

Contact Details  

8. 

The  desirous  industries  should  send  their  Expression  of  Interest  (EoI)  to  Director,  RCI  

on the following address:-  

Director, 

Research Centre Imarat (RCI) 

Vignanyana Kancha 

Hyderabad- 500 028  

Fax:040-24306002 

E-Mail: director[at]rcilab[dot]in  

Copy to:-  

Director,  

Directorate of Industry Interface and Technology Management (DIITM),  

DRDO Headquarters,  

DRDO Bhawan, Rajaji Marg, 

New Delhi- 110011.  

Fax: 011-23793008. 

E-Mail: diitm[dot]hqr[at]gov[dot]in  

 tot[dot]hqr[at]gov[dot]in 

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Appendix-A 

List of support documents to be attached with EOI 

a)  Memorandum  and  Articles  of  Association  (Should  be  incorporated  as  per  Indian 

Companies Act, as amended time to time)  

b)  Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.  

c)  Audited Balance Sheet, turnover and net worth of the company for the preceding three 

years.  

d)  Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period  

e)  Details  of  shareholding/ownership  pattern  especially  foreign  partners/  shareholders, 
foreign  employees,  directors,  etc.  The  company  must  adhere  to  the  prevailing  Govt  of 
India  policies  and  regulations  on  Foreign  Direct  Investment  (FDI)/DIPP  norms  as 
applicable.  

f)  Annual budget (if any) for R&D during last three years. 

g)  Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company.  

h)  Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel.  

i)  Record  of  past  performance  (e.g.,  Supply  orders  executed  against  of  Ministry  of 

Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).  

j)  Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their production capacities) 

and technical expertise to assemble, integrate and test GNC Kits.  

k)  List of Testing and Support equipments  

l) 

ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification (if any). 

m)  Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any).  

n)  Capacity  and  capability  to  undertake  developmental  work  and  to  accept  attendant 

financial and commercial risks. 

o)  Capacity/capability  to  market  the  product  through  the  marketing  network,  sales  and 

service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality.  

p)  Under  taking  from  company  seeking  ToT  that  none  of  its  Directors,  Independent 
Directors, non-executive Directors, and Key management personnel are involved in any 
corrupt practices, unfair means and illegal activities.  

q)  Under taking from Company seeking ToT in respect of Para 1 (g) and Para 1(h) of EoI.  

r)  Brief description of R&D facilities and certificates recognised by any Govt agencies. 

