Expression of Interest (EoI) for ToT of  Granules for 

Bio-

 D   egradable Bags

1. Description

Polythene bags/ bottles have become persistent threats to environment. The pollution caused
by  all  pervasive   polythene   based   packing   material  is  having   inadvertent   impact   on   nature.
Plastics and polyethylene takes about 200-300 years to decompose on its own. The efforts to
recycle   plastic  by  collection   and   segregation   are   tedious  and   costly.   Keeping   in  view  of   ill
effects   of   pervasive   usage   of   plastics   and   polyethylene   bags,   various   options   are   being
researched to replace these hazardous materials. 

In   such   efforts,   DRDO   scientists   have   developed  Granules   for   bio-degradable   bags  to
replace   single   use   polyethylene   bags.   The   single   use   bags   is   based   on   a   formulation
developed using PBAT starch and food graded additives. DRDO has developed two types of
bags   i.e.   water   soluble   bags   (for   sea   application)   and   water   resistance   bags   (for   land
application).   The   existing   polyethylene   bag   manufactures   can   migrate   to   these   bags
manufacturing with minimum change in plant and machinery. 

The salient features of the Technology/ product are:-
 A alternate to conventional single use plastic.
 Eco friendly, Bio-degradable and Home compostable.
 No harm to animals/ aquatic life by disposal/ consumption.
 Bio-degradable within 60 days.
 Home compostable in 90 days.
 Fully tested and certified.
 Printable in multiple colors based on user requirement.
 Cost effective.

DRDO is willing to transfer the technology to industries for mass production to the benefit of
society and mankind. 

The ToT seeking Indian  industries shall comply following criteria/ requirements:-

(a) Capability to absorb the technology and have capacity to produce the granules and bring

in the market within a shortest possible time.

(b) Fulfillment of all regulatory requirements for manufacturing, QA/ QC etc.

(c) Not under any ban by Govt of India/ Any state Govt/ UT or any Govt Agency.

(d) Not be under insolvency resolution.

(e) In-house R&D facilities.

2. ToT 

    Fees

‘Nil’  ToT   Fee  to   be   paid  by   industry   to   DRDO   for   entering   into   Licensing   Agreement   for
Transfer of Technology (LAToT). 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. EOI Submission

    Date

Industry may apply for EoI before 30th June 2022. The EoI is to be submitted by email only.
The  EoI   submitted   by  industries  will  be  scrutinised   by  a   Technical  Assessment   Committee
(TAC)   constituted   by   DRDO.   Technically   qualified   company(ies)   by   TAC   based   on   their
capability and capacity to absorb technology will be given ToT on “First Come First Served
Basis”.

4. Contact

    Details

Interested companies are requested to apply against this EoI through email to following:-

To 
Director
Advanced Systems Laboratory
Defence Research & Development Organisation
Govt. Of India, Ministry of Defence
Kanchanbagh P O, Hyderabad - 500058
Email : director[at]asl[dot]drdo[dot]in

Copy to (for information)
The Director
Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM)
R No 447, DRDO Bhawan, DRDO HQrs,
Rajaji Marg, New Delhi -110011
Email : diitm[at]hqr[dot]drdo[dot]in 

tot[at]hqr[dot]drdo[dot]in

5. Documents to be submitted with

    EoI

The industry (including DPIIT, Govt of India approved Startup) may express their interest for
subject ToT.  Industries must provide details about company and documents in support of their
claim as per Appendix- A. In case any document is not enclosed with EOI, justification to be
provided at relevant  place.  Any additional  documents  if required by DRDO  shall be sought
from the interested industries.

6. Other Terms and

    Conditions

The other terms and conditions for industry seeking ToT are the following:-

(a) DRDO reserves the right to reject any offer or proposal without assigning any reasons.

(b) Submission of EOI does not guarantee ToT to applicant industry.

(c) A committee of experts constituted by DRDO may visit the company’s manufacturing
site(s)   and   facilities   for   assessing   the   strengths   and   capacity   as   furnished   by   the
respective company before shortlisting for ToT.

(d)

Industry may obtain necessary permission/ License/ approval from the suitable authority
for any application/ usage of  Granules  as per the rules/ processes of Govt of India in
vogue after successful ToT.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix-A

List of support documents to be attached with EOI

(a) Memorandum   and   Articles   of   Association   (Should   be   incorporated   as   per   Indian

Companies Act, as amended time to time)

(b) Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.

(c)

Audited Balance Sheet, turnover and net worth of the company for the preceding three
years.

(d)

Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period

(e) Details   of   shareholding/ownership   pattern   especially   foreign   partners/   shareholders,
foreign employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt of India
policies and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable.

(f)

Annual budget (if any) for R&D during last three years.

(g) Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company.

(h) Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel.

(i)

(j)

(k)

(l)

Record of past performance (e.g. Supply orders executed against for Ministry of Defence , 
Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).

Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their production capacities) 
and technical expertise to manufacture. 

List of Testing and Support equipments for manufacturing. 

ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification (if any).

(m) Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any).

(n) Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept attendant financial

and commercial risks.

(o) Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales and service

network, reliability to maintain confidentiality.

(p) Under taking from company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, Independent Directors,
non-executive   Directors,   and   Key   management   personnel   are   involved   in   any   corrupt
practices, unfair means and illegal activities.

(q) Under taking from Company seeking ToT in respect of Para 1 (g) and Para 1(h) of EoI.

