Propellant processing of HTM & LTM  

Objective  : Propellant processing of High Thrust Motor (HTM) of 760 Kg  and Low 

Thrust Motor (LTM ) of 60 Kg 

Introduction:  The  PJ-10  project  has  a  solid  rocket  booster to boost  the missile  to 

the  required  Mach  no  for  the  ramjet  engine  to  take  over.  The  solid  rocket  booster 

comprises of high thrust motor and low thrust motor. High Thrust Motor (HTM) and 

Low  Thrust  Motor  (LTM  )  is    having  the  solid  propellant  system  based  on  HTPB 

/AP/Al.  The  booster  case  is  made  out  of  high  strength  steel.  It  encases  a  8-petal 

finocyl case bonded composite propellant. The case is lined with EPDM insulator.   

2.0   Technical specification of High thrust motor:  

Dimensions : 

a.  Length (mm)  

b.   Dia (mm) 

c.  Weight (Kg)    

~ 5000  

~500  

~760  

         Technical specification of Low Thrust Motor: 

Dimensions : 

a.  Length (mm)  

~ 400  

b.  Dia (mm)                                                  ~ 600 

c.  Weight (Kg)    

Physical / Mechanical Properties : 

a.  Density (g / cc) 
b.  Tensile strength (Kg / cm2) 

~ 60 

~ 1.75  

:   More than  5.0 

c.  Elongation (%)                                        :   More than  30  
d.  Tensile modulus  (Kg/cm2) 

:     30 - 50 

e.  Peel strength (Kg/cm) 
f.  Tensile Bond Strength(Kg / cm2)  

:   More than  0.8 

:  More than  5.0 

Ballistic properties:  

Burn rate (mm/s @ 70kg/cm2 ) 

    :  20 ( 40 Kg BEM motor) 

Pressure Index (n)   

    :   0.40  

NDT acceptance as per the acceptance criteria will be provided 

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Propellant processing  : 

The  lined  motor  case  on  receipt  from  Project  ‘PJ-10’  is  inspected 

before  casting  of  the  propellant.  Raw  materials  are  processed  in  advance. 

Mixing of propellant formulation is carried out in vertical mixer. Motor case is 

assembled with mandrel and base plate. The insulator is abraded and liner is 

subsequently  applied  over  the  insulation  before  propellant  casting  for  better 

bonding. Casting of the motor is carried out under vacuum and then cured in 

an  electrically  heated  hot  air  oven.  After  decoring,  the  excess  propellant  at 

the  nozzle  end  is  removed  by  end  trimming  operation.  Cast  motor  is  finally 

radiographed, inspected and certified 'fit' for delivery to Project ‘PJ-10’.  

Acceptance Criteria: 

The  finished  Booster  propellant  is  checked  for  its  dimensions  and 

subjected  for  nondestructive  testing  (Radiography).  Excess  propellants 

obtained during end trimming operation are used for preparing test pieces for 

mechanical  properties  and  density.  Mechanical,  physical  and  ballistic 

properties  are  also  determined  from  the  propellant  grain  obtained  from 

casting  40  Kg  and  115  mm  dia  mould  using  propellant  slurry  from  bowl  of 

final  mix.  Peel  strength  is  also  determined  from  propellant  processed  from 

final  propellant  mix.  Booster  propellant  should  be  inspected  for  various 

dimensions after all operations. The measured dimension should conform to 

drawing. 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
