BRIEF DETAILS OF COMPUTERISED PILOT SELECTION SYSTEM

  A   new   Computerised   Pilot   Selection   System   (CPSS)   was   been   developed   by
Aeronautical   Development   Establishment   (ADE),   Bangalore   and   Defence   Institute   of
Psychological   Research   (DIPR),   Delhi   with   a   definite   work   share   of   development   of   entire
hardware development and implementation for Psychomotor and Cognitive Systems by ADE
and development  of Psychomotor  and Cognitive tests  software by  DIPR.  CPSS  access  the
flying aptitude in terms of cognitive and psychomotor skills of the candidates appearing for Pilot
Selection in Indian Armed Forces by subjecting the candidates to perform concurrent multiple
tasks.   CPSS has  replaced the earlier existing selection Pilot  Aptitude Battery  Test (PABT)
which consists of Instrument Comprehension tests (INSB) in the form of manual objective type
exams and an elementary PC based Machine Tests. The limited series production developed
was evaluated by IAF and agreement was signed between IAF and DRDO (DIPR) in Aug 2010
to undertake commissioning of 20 psychomotor cockpit systems and 100 cognitive systems
each along with complete associated infrastructure at Mysore, Dehradun and Varanasi. 

SALIENT FEATURES:

I.

II.

III.

IV.

V.

VI.

The complete hardware comprising of state of art embedded systems, fibre glass based
cockpit,   sensors,   controls   were   developed   indigenously   using   Commercially   Off   the
Shelf   components,   which   makes   the   entire   system   completely   self-reliant   for   longer
product support.
ADE has developed state of art USB based membrane keyboard, microcontroller based
main controller unit with dedicated device driver software. The security features have
been built to prohibit unauthorized access of the system.
Comprehensive   diagnostic   software   for   easy   fault   finding   and   calibration   has   been
provided.
Designed   modular   system   with   plug   in   units   at   sub-assembly   level   for   easy
maintenance.
High reliability redundancies have been provided in servers, networking infrastructure,
power supply.
The systems have been developed with long term operational support required so that
technology obsolescence is avoided.

SYSTEM DETAILS: 

The system has been divided into two major sub-systems-

(a) Cognitive Testing sub-system - consists of 100 Nos of PC based cognitive terminals are
arranged in a hall with full networking connected to the server. Each cognitive terminal
has been provided with a customized membrane keyboard with OLED display.

(b) Psychomotor testing sub-system - The candidates are subjected to various tests in an
aircraft simulator cockpit. In this candidates are required to operate the aircraft controls
like control stick, rudder, throttle and various aural and visual warning systems. 

(c) Instructor   Station   with   projection   system   controls   the   entire   operation   of   the   tests,
monitor the status of all the cognitive terminals and display the instructional videos. The
projection system projects the instructions to the candidates. 

(d)   Cognitive   and   Psychomotor   systems   are   connected   to   Database   servers   and

networking infrastructure. 

(e) Multimedia projection systems and DSP based audio solutions are provided for carrying

out the briefing for the candidates appearing for the tests.    

The system was successfully installed and commissioned which was inaugurated by the
Chief   of   Air   Staff   on   28   Nov   2014   at   2AFSB   Mysore.   CPSS   was   under   warranty
maintenance support by ADE for 2 years till 04 Feb 2017.

CPSS PHOTOGRAPHS:

