GOVERNMENT OF INDIA, MINISTRY OF DEFENCE 

DEFENCE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ORGANISATION 

TERMINAL BALLISTICS RESEARCH ORGANISATION 

SECTOR - 30, CHANDIGARH - 160 030 

Introduction:  

TBRL has developed a continuous process for production of propellant grade fine ß-

HMX /fine RDX of mean particle size less than 6 micron (surface mean) with narrow 

distribution and has scaled up the process to required production capacity.  The fine 

ß-HMX  is  free  from  undesirable  polymorphs  of  HMX  such  as  α,  γ  and  δ  which  are 

unstable and sensitive in nature. The process is safe and environment friendly due to 

recycle of solvent. By use of this HMX/RDX, the ISP of the propellant has increased 

by  7-  8%.  Due  to  this  performance  improvement,  the  materials  have  been 

extensively  used  in  the  development  of  high  performance  rocket  propellants.  The 

materials  have  met  all  technical  specifications  of  propellant  grade  fine  Nitra  amine 

and  presently  are  in  use  for  production  of  import  substitute  Rocket  propellant. 

Therefore,  the  requirement  of  this  propellant  grade  fine  ß-HMX/RDX  has  increased 

many folds in missile and space programs.  

To find  suitable  industrial  partners for mass production of  this propellant  grade fine 

ß-HMX/RDX.  

This is a novel process which gives a narrow range of particle size distribution of fine 

ß-HMX/RDX  that  is  free  from  undesirable  polymorphs  of  HMX  such  as  α,  γ  and  δ. 

The  process  is  safe  and  environment  friendly  and  economical  due  to  recycle  of 

solvents. During the complete process cycle, the cost of the product is also low. 

PRE QUALIFICATION CRITERIA 

1. 

Only  Indian  company  or  consortia  of  Indian  companies  wholly  owned  by  Indian 

individuals/companies  are  allowed  to  participate  in  this  EOI.  The  consortium  of  Indian 

companies has to execute an MoU/Agreement between them and define the lead company 

who  shall  be  responsible  for  all  other  constituent  companies  of  the  consortium  for  the 

purpose of this EOI. A constituent firm cannot be a part of two consortia participating in this 

EOI. 

Page 1 of 4 

 
 
2. 

Company/consortia  of  companies  should  hold  valid  licenses  for  processing  of 

explosives, ammunition filling (Detonators, PETN/RDX etc.). 

3. 

The  company  /  lead  company  of  consortium  of  Indian  companies  should  have  an 

annual turnover of Rs.50 Crores for the last three years. Fundamentals of the company, like 

company  profile,  balance  sheets  and  income  tax  returns  etc.  for  last  three  years  will  be 

mandatory  to  assess  the  capability  of  the  firm  to  undertake  the  order  for  subsequent  bulk 

production. 

4. 

On  receipt  of  EOIs,  the  same  will  be  scrutinized  by  a  committee  of  experts  duly 

constituted by the Director, TBRL who shall asses the suitability of the firms for this task. If 

required, the committee may visit premises of the industry seeking ToT for assessment. 

5. 

DRDO at its discretion can transfer the technology to more than one vendor. 

Page 2 of 4 

 
FORMAT FOR APPLICATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST 

ANNEXURE - II 

1. 

  Name and full address of the Organization 

2. 

  Management Structure 

3. 

  Contact Person with designation 

4. 

  Contact  telephone  numbers  and  fax  No.  and 

Email address 

5. 

  Current operational areas of work 

6. 

  Turnover for last three years 

7. 

  Approval/registration with any Govt./Agency 

8. 

  Details  of  expertise  available  in  the  production  

of explosive materials 

9. 

  Regular manpower available on roll  

10.   Available 

in  house  analysis 

facility,  quality 

assurance/quality control facility  

11.   Areas of work where expertise available,  

pl.  elaborate  (Explosive  processing/Mechanical/ 

Electrical/Chemical/ etc.) 

12.   Similar  work  done  for  any  government  agency 

such as DRDO/ISRO/DAE etc 

13.   Any other credentials in the subject area 

14.   Acceptance of TBRL terms and conditions 

In  addition  to  above  details,  industries  seeking  ToT  are  requested  to  submit 
following details with supporting documents: 

(a)   Memorandum  and  Articles  of  Association  (Should  be  incorporated  as  per 
Indian Companies Act, as amended time to time) 

(b)   Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any. 

(c)   Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years. 

(d)  

Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period. 

foreign  partners/ 
(e)   Details  of  shareholding/ownership  pattern  especially 
shareholders,  foreign  employees,  directors,  etc.  The  company  must  adhere  to  the 

Page 3 of 4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
prevailing  Govt  of  India  policies  and  regulations  on  Foreign  Direct  Investment 
(FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable. 

(f)  

Annual budget for R&D during last three years. 

(g)   Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company. 

(h)   Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel. 

Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry 

(i)  
of Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any). 

Availability  of  adequate  infrastructure  (List  of  machines  and  their  production 

(j)  
capacities) and technical expertise. 

(k)  

List of Testing and Support equipments. 

(l)  

ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification 

(m)   Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any) 

(n)   Capacity  and  capability  to  undertake  developmental  work  and  to  accept 
attendant financial and commercial risks. 

(o)   Capacity/capability  to  market  the  product  through  the  marketing  network, 
sales and service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 

(p)   PESO  and  DPIIT  license  for  explosive  handling  if  ToT  is  for  high  energy 
Material, explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc. 

(q)   Under  taking  from  company  seeking  ToT  that  none  of  its  Directors, 
Independent  Directors,  non-executive  Directors,  Key  management  personnel  are 
involved in any corrupt practices, unfair means and illegal activities. 

Page 4 of 4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
