 Biodegradable Packaging Materials 

Excessive usage of plastics accompanied by its relatively low cost and easy availability started 
an era popularly known as the age of “throw away living”, where plastics are indiscriminately thrown 
after its single use. This has resulted in accumulation of plastic waste everywhere, which is disturbing 
and damaging the earth’s ecosystem. Govt of India introduced Plastic Waste Management Rules, 
2016, prohibiting identified single use plastic items. Recently the Ministry of Environment, Forest, 
and  Climate  Change  (MoEFCC)  also  released  guidelines  to  phase  out  single  use  plastics  vide  the 
Plastic Waste Management (Amendment) Rules, 2022.  As an alternate to non-degradable single use 
plastics, Defence Food Research Laboratory (DFRL), Mysore has developed a technology to make 
biodegradable packaging materials (Carry Bags) , which decomposes in a specific environment such 
as water, soil, compost etc under a short period of time. 

DFRL-DRDO has developed Biodegradable Packaging Materials technology.  This technology 
is  mainly  focused  on  the  utilization  of  biodegradable  and  compostable  polymers  such  as 

Polybutylene Adipate co- Terephthalate (PBAT), Poly Lactic Acid (PLA), starch etc for the production 
of flexible films for applications such as carry bags, pouches, bags etc. A suitable formulation was 
developed  which  can  be  blown  into  films  using  extrusion  film  blowing  technique.  The  physico-
mechanical properties of the film were carried out using a tensile tester as per to ASTM D 882 and 
found to have sufficient strength for using in carry bag applications. These films were tested for their 
biodegradability and found to meet the BIS standard for compostable plastics. A soil burial test was 
conducted, where thee samples were found to gradually disintegrate and the biodegraded within 
the  stipulated  time  period.  During  the  process,  erosion  holes  were  first  observed  in  the  sample 
followed  by  breaking  down  into  residual  fragments.  Later  the  film  completely  disappeared, 
indicating complete biodegradation of the film. Weight loss percentage was also recorded during 
the test period. 

The  technology  is  amenable  for  bulk  production  with  varied  thickness  as  per  the  end  user 
requirement.  Any  existing  carry  bag  manufacturer  can  use  this  technology  to  manufacture 
compostable and environmentally friendly films and carry bags. Considering the widespread usage 
of  single  use  plastics  in  various  fields,  biodegradable  and  compostable  plastics  are  having  the 
potential to replace existing non degradable plastics. There is a growing demand for biodegradable 
plastics, which degrade in the environment, to establish a more sustainable society and to solve our 
environmental and waste management problems. 

 
 
 
 
 
