MEALS READY TO EAT (MRE   RATION FOR ARMY) 

The  development  of  pack  rations  to  service  forces  is  very  critical.  Because,  protecting 
food  items  from  physical  and  chemical  deterioration  in  storage,  transport  and  handling,  the 
packaging  and  packing  of  any  operational  ration  used  during  logistic  period,  should  meet 
three  considerations  of  (i)  operational  limitations  on  meals  patterns,  (ii)  operational 
limitations  on  weight  and  volume  and  (iii)  availability  of  materials.  With  the  due 
consideration  to  the  above  fact,  Defence  Food  Research  Laboratory  (DFRL),  Mysore  has 
developed Meals–Ready–to-Eat (MRE) Ration technology comprises Retort pouch processed 
foods, Shelf stable no preservative chapaties/ Preserved & flavoured chapaties and  Survival 
ration  to  meet  the  operational  needs  for  the  Army  and  Navy.  The  retort  pouch  processed 
foods and Shelf stable no preservative chapaties do not require any cooking since the contents 
are thermally processed and can be consumed readily after little warming if required. Retort 
pouch  processed  Ready  to  Eat  (RTE)  foods  are  processed  in  a  specially  designed  bulk 
sterilizer. Each batch is  carefully monitored for F0 at 1210.1 C to ensure microbiological as 
well as chemical quality. The food products are processed in a special retort to internationally 
accepted  food  standards.    The  technology  used  is  highly  scientific  accepted  at  international 
level.  The  packaging  material  consists  of  multilayer  structure  of  12  micron  Polyester  /  9 
micron  Aluminum  foil  /  70  micron  Nylon/70  micron  cast  Polypropylene  designed  and 
manufactured  to  withstand  high  temperatures  and  internal  pressure  during  heating,  cooling, 
storage and transport.   

Survival ration contains  energy dense soft bar and delicious chikkis from groundnut 
with  Jaggery/sugar  to  meet  immediate  nutritional  requirements  of  Armed  Forces  during 
operation. The survival ration consists of Soft bar 100 g x 2 Nos, Chikki (sugar based) 50 g x 
3 Nos, Chikki (Jaggery based) 50 g x 3 Nos. Rations are packed in Low Density Polyethylene 
(LDPE)  of  125  micron  thickness  and  hermetically  sealed  and  vacuum  packed.  Chikkis  are 
vacuum packed in laminated pouches to enhance the shelf life to more than one year without 
any sensory changes at ambient conditions. 

The Indian MRE compares very well with well-known international rations like MRE 
of USA and GP-24 of UK in nutritional quality and hygienic standards. The shelf life of the 
ration is 12 months under ambient condition. The total calorific value of the ration is 3300 K 
Cal. and meets the immediate nutritional requirements during operation. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
