ToT OF LONG RANGE OPTICAL TARGET LOCATER 1500 (OTL1500)

LASTEC has developed Optical Target Locater for detection and location of commonly used
active   and   passive   surveillance   devices.   It  provides   an  important  tool   for   detection   of
camouflaged passive or active surveillance device like optical day sight or sniper telescope,
Night   Vision   Device,   CCD   cameras,   reticle   binoculars   or   electronic   sensors   as   in   Laser
Range Finder, during day and night operations in urban scenarios. 
The   developed   device,   ‘Long   Range  Optical   Target   Locater   1500   (OTL1500)  has   an
operational range of the order of 1500m in day/ night operations.
OTL1500   comprises   of   a   SWIR   laser   source   with   appropriate   divergence   control   and   a
customized optical assembly with a SWIR sensor having high sensitivity at the wavelength
of operation. It operates on Li ion rechargeable batteries and is ergonomically designed as a
tripod mounted equipment. The optics and the system electronics are highly customized for
contrast limited imaging so that the detected target appears as a bright pulsating spot on the
background scene that can be viewed through the biocular and simultaneously on an external
display. In addition, OTL1500 has the capability to compute and display the own coordinates
as well as coordinates of the detected optical threat.

 OTL 1500 finds application with military and Para military forces. It can be used for active
scanning  and  monitoring   of  specific   areas,   detection  of  pointed  optics   viz.,   snipers,   area
sanitization as well as border security.
The   equipment   has   been   extensively   demonstrated   to   several   potential   users.   Security
agencies responsible for homeland as well as border security have shown keen interest in this
device.   OTL1500   has   undergone   extensive   user   evaluation   with   Indian   Army,   and   other
security forces and it is short listed for procurement. 

Although   a   few   commercial   systems   for   detection   of   optical   devices,   operating   in   NIR
wavelength band are available internationally but following salient features of the developed
device make it unique for the mentioned application: 

a. Laser invisible to all prevalent surveillance devices
b. Improved image quality
c. Target locating module for providing target   
     coordinates
d. Laser ’On’ at user’s discretion for saving power 
e. Audio buzzer on target confirmation.
f. In built cartridge type field replaceable battery  
g. Live video streaming at a remote location
h. Video recording feature. 
i. Remote operation capability 
j. Mostly maintenance free operation

