Brief description for Transfer of Technology
on
“DMR-249A Grade Steel Bulb Bars for Naval Applications”

i. Description of the technology

Bulb  bars  are  used  as  stiffeners  in  shipbuilding,  especially  in  naval  construction.
They are long products with an asymmetric cross-section (see Figure below) that
are produced by hot rolling using semi-rolled continuous cast slabs or billets from
authorized  manufacturers  as  feedstock.  The  manufacturing  process  is  fairly
complex and involves multiple steps including roll pass design, actual rolling, and
subsequently  heat  treatment.  The  bulb  bars  have  to  meet  stringent  geometrical,
dimensional, physical and metallurgical requirements. Eleven different sections of
bulb bars ranging from P6 to P24 (Fig. a) have been developed and productionized
in  lengths  up  to  12m.  The  number  following  P  is  the  base  width  of  the  bulb  bar
section given in cm (‘h’ in Fig. a).

Figure:  (a)  Schematic  of  bulb  bar  cross-section  indicating  the  main  sectional
parameters, (b) sample piece of bulb bar, (c) relative sizes of the eleven sections
required,  and (d) stacks of painted bulb bars ready for dispatch

Table: Dimensions of representative bulb bars

Bulb 
Section

Bar

h
(mm)

b
(mm)

s
(mm)

r1, 

r, 
(mm)

r2

P7

P12

P24a

P24b

70

120

240

240

21

30

52

54

5.0

6.5

12.0

14.0

3.5

5.0

9.0

9.0

During  the  initial  development,  DMRL  has  worked  in  close  coordination  with  the
straightening,
manufacturing  agency 
microstructural  evaluations  etc.  to  meet  the  strict  requirements  i.e.  mechanical
properties, dimensional tolerances and other criteria.

treatment  optimization, 

for  heat 

The  vendor  has  to  develop  the  roll  pass  design  on  his  own  for  converting  the
feedstock to the bulb bars to meet dimensional requirements.

Bulb  bars  have  been  accepted  by  the  competent  authority  of  Indian  Navy  and  a
Naval  Construction  Document:  NCD  0249  Part-III  Issue  1,  April  2011  has  been
issued by Directorate of Naval Architecture (DNA), Integrated Headquarters (IHQ),
MOD (Navy).

DMR 249A steel Bulb bars are currently in routine production at approved vendors
for use in construction and repair/refit of warships for the Indian Navy.

ii. Application areas

The bulb bars find use in construction and repair/refit of warships.

iii. Its USP-such as certifications and test results etc.

DMR249A bulb bars manufactured by two authorized vendors have met all
requirements qualifying them for use in warship construction. The bulb bars
produced by one vendor have also been certified through a more rigorous process
for use in submarine applications.

iv. Photographs at appropriate places on the technology developed (if available)

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

