TOT OF WET END SUB-SYSTEM FOR ADVANCED LIGHT TOWED ARRAY SONAR (ALTAS) 

Expression of Interest 

1.  Introduction 

NPOL,  Kochi,  a  premier  laboratory  under  Defence  R&D  Organisation  invites 

Expression of Interest (EOI) from Indian manufacturer(s) having sufficient experience, 

expertise and willingness to undertake Production of WET END SUB-SYSTEM for an 

Advanced Light Towed Array Sonar (ALTAS) 

Launch/Recovery Unit 

On-board Electronics 

Tow Cable Assy 

Transmitter Array 

Receiver Array 

Schematic of ALTAS System 

The Wet End Sub-System consists of Transmitter and Receiver Arrays and Tow Cable 

assembly.  The  Transmitter  Array  is  housed  in  a  Vertically  stabilised  body  and  is 

hooked  on  to  the  seamless  Tow  Cable  with  linear  receiver  Array.  Technical 

specifications are enclosed at annexure 1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  RESPONSIBILITIES OF MANUFACTURER OF WET END SUB-SYSTEM   

ALTAS  is a  multidisciplinary  sonar  system  consisting  of  technologies  of  transducers, 

mechanical  engineering,  ocean  engineering,  electrical  and  electronics  engineering, 

power electronics and software. Realisation of the entire sonar system under one roof 

may not be practical because of the diversity of technologies, know-how and skill set 

required.  And  hence  the  hardware  content  of  the  sonar  has  been  realised  as 

subsystems  through  specialised  Indian  industries  and  integrated  as  ALTAS  sonar 

system by incorporating dedicated software developed by NPOL. The responsibility of 

its  installation  onboard  a  naval  ship  and  the  role  of  lead  system  integrator  was 

undertaken by NPOL. The performance validation of the system was done under the 

leadership  of    NPOL  and  with  the  association  of  Indian  Navy  through  a  series  of 

structured  sea  trials  with  real  targets  deployed  at  strategic  locations.  Performance 

validation has since been completed, the Indian Navy will shortly evaluate the system 

as  per  mutually  agreed  trial  plan  and  procedure.    Indian  Navy  has  plans  to  induct  a 

few ALTAS sonar systems for its front line war ships soon after evaluation trials. The 

purpose  of  this  EOI  is  to  identify  one  /  two  potential  Manufacturer  for  ALTAS  WET 

END  SUB-SYSTEM.        Responsibilities  of  Sub-system  manufacturer  of  ‘WET  END 

SUB-SYSTEM’ is further elaborated in the succeeding sections. 

2.1  Supply    of  Sub-system  to  Lead  System  Integrator  (LSI)  nominated  by  Indian 

Navy/NPOL 

a.  Supply  order  will  be  placed  on  the  manufacturer  by  a  LSI  nominated  by  Indian 

Navy/NPOL. 

b.  Manufacturer  will  supply  the  WET  END  SUB-SYSTEM’  as  per  TOT  Documents. 

Detailed Specifications, Quality policy / program for component level to  sub-system 

level,  ATP,  FAT’s,  HAT’s  and  SAT’s  documents  and    BOM  will  be  provided  in  the 

TOT documents. 

c.  The  manufacturer  will  field  sub-  system  against  RFP  from  LSI  by  submitting 

Technical, commercial and price bids appropriately. 

2.2  Organising QT/ET/ATP at the premises of sub-system manufacturer. 

a.  Manufacturer  has  to  organise  QT/ET  at  the  manufacturers  end  as  per  sub-system 

acceptance document provided in the TOT document.  

 
 
 
b.  Manufacturer  has  to  conduct  FAT’s  at  the  manufacturers  end  as  per  sub-system 

Factory  acceptance  document  provided  in  the  TOT  document  before  despatch  of 

sub-system for system Integration. 

2.3  Auditing of Quality Process 

a.  Manufacturer  will  ensure  auditing  of  quality  process  by  competent  authority 

responsible for quality assurance as spelt out by LSI. 

b.  LSI  will  have  the  right  to  nominate  Competent  authority  responsible  for  quality 

assurance and inspection at the manufacturers premises. 

3.  TOT TERMS 

3.1  As per DRDO Guidelines for Transfer of Technology (TOT), the first TOT will normally 

be given to the industry associated during development on priority so as to ensure high 

quality of manufacture within the limitations in hand-holding support of DRDO. 

3.2  TOT will be given on non-exclusive basis only. The number of license on non-exclusive 

basis will be  restricted.  However,  additional licence  if  required  will  be  given  by  DRDO 

on need basis. The intellectual property rights shall always remain with DRDO.   

3.3  The  amount  and  payment  stages  of  TOT  fee  will  be  as  prescribed  by  DRDO.  As  per 

current guidelines it is upto 20% of its developmental cost. 

3.4  Royalty fee @ 2% of the annual sales will be applicable uniformly for all industries. 

3.5   Technical  assessment  of  the  industries  submitting  EOI’s  will  be  carried  out  by  a 

Technical  assessment  committee  for  verification  of  the  technical  and  financial 

capability/capacity of the industry. 

3.6  Eligible  parties  will  have  to  sign  Confidentiality  &  Non-Disclosure  Agreement  (CNDA) 

with DRDO for technical discussion including specifications, following  which they shall 

be considered for giving Transfer of Technology (TOT) on non-exclusive basis. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.7  TOT  to  industry  will  be  given  based  on  their  manufacturing  capability,  assurance  on 

quality and capacity of production apart from other terms and conditions.  

3.8  The licencing agreement for transfer of technology (LATOT) which is to be signed will 

be  as  per  the  template  approved  by  Department  of  Legal  affairs.  Ministry  of  Law  and 

Justice. 

3.9   DRDO shall have the march-in rights to use the IP for its own use in the interest of the 

Govt. of India without any restrictions, irrespective of the nature of licence granted. 

3.10  DRDO shall have the right to Revoke the Licence if the company fails to adhere to the 

terms and conditions especially with respect to adherence of Quality. 

3.11  The  firm  expressing  interest  should  be  technically  sound  to  Procure/manufacture, 

supply and maintain the system with requisite quality standards.  

4.  EOI TERMS 

Interested  Industries  may    write  along  with  their  company  profile,  financial  &  technical 

capabilities etc. as per the following format  to Director, NPOL, Kochi and copy to Director 

DIITM on the following addresses  within 45 days of this advertisement. 

Director, NPOL 
DRDO, Min. of Defence,  
Thrikkakara P.O. 
Kochi-682021 
Contact No - 0484 2424878 
FAX : 0484-2424858 
Email: director@npol.drdo.in 

Director, DIITM  
Room No 446 DRDO Bhawan 
DRDO HQrs Ministry of Defence  
Rajaji Marg New Delhi – 110011  
Contact No - (011) 23016216 / 23007446 
FAX No. 011-23793008 

a)  Memorandum  and  Articles  of  Association  (Should  be  incorporated  as  per  Indian 

Companies Act, 1956)  

b)  Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.  

c)  Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.  

d)  Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
e)  Details of shareholding/ownership pattern especially foreign partners/ shareholders, 

foreign employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt. 

of India policies and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI).  

f)  Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  

g)  Numbers and details of IPR or patents etc. held by the company.  

h)  Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel.  

i)  Record  of  past  performance  (e.g.  Supply  orders  executed  against  Ministry  of 

Defence orders, public sectors and paramilitary forces, if any.  

j)  Availability  of  adequate  infrastructure  (List  of  machines  and  their  production 

capacities) and technical expertise.  

k)  List of Testing and Support equipment. 

l) 

ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification  

m) Relevant clearances from the authorities/ ministries (if any) 

n)  Capacity  and  capability  to  undertake  developmental  work  and  to  accept  attendant 

financial and commercial risks.  

o)  Capacity/Capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales and 

service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 

 
 
                                                         Annexure 1 

WET END SUB-SYSTEM OF SONAR ALTAS 

1.  The Wet End System consists of: 

1.1 Towed Projector Unit (TPU) 

1.2 Towed Receiver Array (TRA) 

1.3 Tow Cable Assembly (TCA) 

1.4 Array Data Interface Box 

2.  Towed Projector Unit. (TPU) 

The Towed Projector Unit consists of: 

2.1 Vertical Projector Array. (VPA) 

2.2 Vertically Towed Body. (VTB) 

2.3 Tuning Coil Box  

2.4 Cable Harness Assembly. 

The  Towed  Projector  Unit  is  a  vertical    array  of  underwater  sound  projectors(VPA) 

housed in  a free flooded hydro dynamically stabilised Vertically Towed Body (VTB).  

The  Electronics  are  housed  in  a  pressure  tight    Tuning  Coil  Box  at  the  base  of  the 

Vertical Projector Array to operate at an ocean depth of 300 meters 

3.  Towed Receiver Array   

The Towed receiver array is an assembly of different modules consisting of acoustic 

sensor modules and isolation modules.  The acoustic sensor module is a linear array 

of acoustic sensors,  along with signal conditioning electronics. The acoustic sensors 

and electronics are housed in a flexible tube filled with oil or jelly . The sub-systems 

of Receiver array consists of : 

3.1 Isolation Module Level-1 

3.2 Acoustic Sensor Module Level-1 

3.3 Acoustic Sensor Module Level-2 

3.4 Acoustic Sensor Module Level-3 

3.5 Acoustic Sensor Module Level-4 

3.6 Isolation Module Level-2 

Each module has  an average length of 30 meters and diameter of 80 mm. The modules  are 

interconnected  using  pressure  balanced  multi-pin  under  water  marine  grade  connectors  to 

Page 1 of 5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                         Annexure 1 

form and operate as a single receiver array. The receiver array is designed to operate at depths 

of 200 meters and has a breaking strength of 2 tons. 

4. 

Tow Cable assembly  

Tow Cable assembly act as the life line of Towed Array Sonar, transferring the drag force to 

the winch, acting as the medium for transferring power supply to the arrays and providing a 

data  telemetry  link.  Tow  cable  assembly  consists  of  a  light  tow  cable,  heavy  tow  cable, 

Electro-opto-Mechanical-Interface Connector and a Cable Interface Module. 

Both the Light Tow cable and Heavy tow cable have signal lines, power lines and FO lines. 

The  light  tow  cable  is  designed  to  be  neutrally  buoyant  in  water  and  can  operate  at  water 

depths  off  200  meter  and  has  a  breaking  strength  of  15  tons.  The  heavy  tow  cable  is 

positively buoyant and can operate at water depths of 200 meters with a breaking strength of 

20 tons. Both Heavy tow cable and Light tow cable are torque balanced. 

Electro-opto-Mechanical-Interface Connector is a sealed unit designed to operate under 200 

meters of water and  couples the light tow cable and heavy tow cable electrically, optically 

and mechanically for a breaking strength of 15 tons. The Electro-opto-Mechanical-Interface 

Connector  is  also  designed  to  couple  the  Towed  Projector  Array  electrically  and 

mechanically  on the tow cable assembly. 

The  free  end  of  the  HTC  is  provided  with  a  winch  end  mechanical  termination  and  optical 

conectorisation.  The  free  end  of  the  LTC  is  to  be  assembled  with  Cable  Interface  Module 

(CIM)  which  converts  the  electrical  signal  from  Receiver  Array  into  optical  signal.  A 

schematic block diagram of Tow Cable assembly is shown below. 

1 

2 

3 

4 

4 

5 

 Schematic block diagram of Tow Cable Assembly 

Heavy Tow Cable (HTC)  

Electro-opto-Mechanical-Interface Connector (EOMIC) 

Intermediate anchoring 

Light Tow Cable (LTC) 

Cable Interface Module 

1. 

2.  

3. 

4. 

5. 

Page 2 of 5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                         Annexure 1 

5. 

 Array Data Interface Box 

The data from the towed array is available over optical link in the tow cable. The optical data 

from the array is received by converted to electrical format before taking the data through the 

winch slip ring.  The data is again converted to optical before sending it to the Sonar control 

room. The former conversion happens in the rotor box while the latter happens in the stator 

box.  Both  these  units  use  Ethernet  Fiber  Media  converters  for  the  conversions.  Along  with 

these converters, the units also house the required power supplies and Ethernet switches. The 

Array  interface  unit  (AIU)  houses  the  electronics  required  for  converting  the  optical  data 

coming  to  the  Sonar  Control  Room  back  to  Ethernet  form.  It  also  houses  the  electronics 

required  for  the  built  in  test  Insonifier    for  the  towed  array.  The  AIU  forms  the  interface 

between  Towed  Array  data  and  signal  processing    electronics  at  SCR.  AIU  accommodates 

Ethernet  Fiber  media  converters,  Ethernet  switches,  DC-DC  converters  and  Built  in  test  

insonifier  electronics. 

6. 

Skill Set requirement 

     6.1     Assembly, integration & Testing of Towed Projector Unit (TPU) 

 6.1.1   Competence to identify Transducer shell resonance and assembly of respective   
PZT stack to obtain required  “Transmitting Voltage Response (TVR)” 

6.1.2   Competence for Impedance matching of transducer with Tuning  Coils for  

specified Delivery of power. 

          6.1.3  Competence for Assembly  of TPU without affecting overall set TVR and  

Source Level 

         6.1.4    Expertise in Underwater testing of Transducers with Standard Hydrophones  

6.1.5    Expertise in acoustic measurements with matching system power amplifier  

and  Transducer array fine tuning till final proving of SL 

6.1.6   Experience in handling PV/Epoxy resins for potting underwater connectors  

and  Axially water-blocked multicore cables.  

    6.2      Assembly, Integration & Testing of Electro-opto-Mechanical-Interface  

   Connector 

           6.2.1  Competence in splicing of fibre optic cables of Multimode Fibre  optic lines. 

           6.2.2   Competence in safe securing of spliced fibre optic joints. 

           6.2.3   Competence  in steel  armoured cable termination.   

           6.2.4   Competence in  aramid fiber strength member cable termination. 

6.2.5    Competence in polyurethane potting of cable termination to achieve high  

pressure sealing  of cable termination. 

Page 3 of 5 

 
 
 
 
  
  
 
    
  
 
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
                                                         Annexure 1 

           6.2.6    Competence in epoxy potting of aramid strength member. 

           6.2.7     Competence in swage button termination of Steel wire ropes. 

           6.2.8      Competence in handling and pressure filling of Silicon  gel. 

           6.2.9      Competence in crimping of Stainless steel rings on flexible tubes. 

7.  General  

The  manufacturer 

  shall  carry  out  Qualifications  tests  as  per  DQAN  guidelines. 

Environmental Stress Screening (ESS) Tests include Thermal cycling. Random vibration and 

Endurance/burn-in for 100% Electronic Components. The Environmental Tests (ET) includes 

High temperature storage test and Vibration test as per MIL-STD-167-I(Ships). 

8. 

Facility Requirement  

The manufacturer should have their own facility for manufacturing, assembly, and testing of 

receiver arrays. The following facilities are required for carrying out the production work.  

a)  An air-conditioned hall  with dimensions not less than 40 m long x 8 m wide x 6 m 

high. 

b)  Environmental  stress  screening  facility  with  not  less  than  150  liter  capacity  for 

carrying out screening of electronic components. 

c)  Vibration facility to carry out random vibration and variable frequency test. 

d)  Sophisticated Electronics Laboratory with facilities for precision electronics works 

such as wiring, soldering and testing. 

e)  Load testing facility for tensile testing of the modules of Towed Receiver Array. 

f)  Tube insertion facility with a provision of inserting 35 m long modules with high 

capacity vacuum pumps. 

g)  Oil filling facility with a height of 12 m. 

h)  Dehumidified air-conditioned room for assembly of Sound Projectors. 

i)  Pressure Test facility for 30 bar. 

j)  Underwater measurement facility for deep water (40 meters)acoustic measurements  

k)  Hydraulic press  

l)  Rubber Molding  facility  

m)  Deployment/Retrieval simulations test setup 

Page 4 of 5 

 
 
 
 
                                                         Annexure 1 

9. 

Equipment Requirement             

      The  following testing equipment are necessary 

a)   100 MHz Digital storage oscilloscope 

b)  Computer/ Laptop with 100 Mbps Ethernet port loaded with Lab view software 

c)  Stellar is Evaluation Kit (EKK – L M 3S 9 B 92) 

d)  PL-USB Blaster (RCN, Make : Altera) 

e)  Function (Arbitrary Waveform)  generator  (10 MHz ) 

f)  Impedance analyzer 

g)  High Voltage ( 300V/2 k W) DC power supply, with UPS back up  

h)  Regulated DC power supply  0-30V, 5 A 

i)  1000 V  Megger 

j)  RMS  Multimeter 

k)  Insonification  Unit – for generating acoustic noise of required frequency  

Page 5 of 5 

 
 
 
