Expression of Interest (EoI) for ToT of High Explosive Technology for Warhead (MCHEW-2) of 
Missile System 

Description of Technology: 
There was a need to develop high explosive technologies for the PCB and BF type of warheads to 
destroy various targets.  

i.  HE technology for penetration cum blast warhead  
ii.  HE technology for blast fragmentation warhead  
iii.  HES compositions for Inert warhead  

High  explosive  technology  has  been  developed  by  DRDO  to  destroy  various  targets.  Exhaustive 
studies were carried out to finalize the HE compositions and their filling methodologies in warhead to 
realize the required performance lethality at the desired distances. The melt cast technology has been 
developed for the main filling of the warhead and pressing technology for the booster charge.   

More  powerful  main  filling  of  high  VoD  HE  composition  has  been  finalized  for  the  Blast 
Fragmentation  (BF)  warhead.  High  shock  insensitive  composition  has  been  finalized  for  the 
Penetration cum blast warhead (PCB). Booster pellets are of  HE composition (PBXP 101). They are 
developed for completion of explosive train  

HE casting in two types of warheads viz. penetration cum blast (PCB) and blast fragmentation (BF) 
has been completed. All trials such as integration checks, static performance trials, controlled dynamic 
trials  of  warheads  for  design  validation  are  completed  successfully.  Developed  high  explosive 
composition met QR. 

Application Areas: 
High explosive compositions and their filling in warhead of MCHEW-2 is designed and developed by 
DRDO to destroy various targets by blast fragmentation and penetration cum blast.  

Unique Selling Point (USP): 
All  the  trials  including  User  trials  of  warhead  in  both  static  and  flight  modes  have  been  completed 
successfully. Developed technology met QR and it is equivalent to global level. All the raw materials 
for  the  filling  of  warhead  system  are  available  indigenously.  The  equipment  required  for  the 
preparation of explosive composition filling is available indigenously.  

Contact Details 

Interested  companies/industries  are  requested  to  apply  against  this  EoI  through  email  or  by  DAK  to 
following address:- 

To, 

Director 

High Energy Materials Research Laboratory 

Govt. of India, Ministry of Defence 

Pune-411 021 

Email-director.hemrl@gov.in 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Copy to:- 

The Director 

Directorate of Industry Interface & technology Management (DIITM) 

Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110 011 

Email-diitm.hqr@gov.in 

List of Support documents to be attached with EoI 

(a)  Memorandum  and  Articles  of  Association  (Should  be  incorporated  as  per  Indian  Companies 

Act, as amended time to time) 

 (b)  Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any. 

 (c)   Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.  

(d)  

Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period  

(e)   Details  of  shareholding/ownership  pattern  especially  foreign  partners/  shareholders,  foreign 
employees,  directors,  etc.  The  company  must  adhere  to  the  prevailing  Govt  of  India  policies 
and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable.  

(f)  

Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  

(g)   Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company. 

 (h)   Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel. 

 (i)   Record  of  past  performance  (e.g.,  Supply  orders  executed  against  of  Ministry  of  Defence 

orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).  

(j)  

Availability  of  adequate  infrastructure  (List  of  machines  and  their  production  capacities)  and 
technical expertise.  

(k)  

List of Testing and Support equipment’s 

 (l)  

ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification  

(m)   Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any) 

(n)   Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept attendant financial and 

commercial risks.  

(o)   Capacity/capability  to  market  the  product  through  the  marketing  network,  sales  and  service 

network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 

(p)   PESO and  DPIIT license  for explosive handling if ToT is for high  energy Material, explosives, 

propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc.  

(q)   Under taking form company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, Independent Directors, non-
executive  Directors,  Key  management  personnel  are  involved  in  any  corrupt  practices,  unfair 
means and illegal activities. 

 
(r)   Details of the industrials license for defence manufacturing be provided by the industry seeking 

ToTs. 

 
 
