Expression of Interest (EoI) for Transfer of Technology (ToT) for DPICM 

Warhead: Pinaka 

1. 

Introduction 

Armament  Research  and  Development  Establishment  (ARDE),  Pune  is  an 

laboratory  under  Defence  Research  and  Development  Organisation  (DRDO). 

ARDE  is  engaged  in  developing  cutting  edge  technologies  in  the  field  of 

conventional  armaments  to  cater  to  needs  of  Indian  Armed  Forces viz.  Indian 

Army, Navy and Air Force. 

2.  Brief Description of the Technology 

DPICM Warhead: Pinaka is one type of warhead developed for artillery rocket: 

system named as Pinaka. The development of warhead is already completed & 

necessary 

trial  evaluation  by  armed 

forces 

is  underway.  The  various 

mechanical sub – systems of the warhead are as follows 

•  Outer  ballistic casing 
•  Packaging unit 
•  Sub-munition 
•  Central burster mechanism 
•  Safety Arming  & Short  Device 

3. 

Technology Transfer 

The technology will be transferred for Non-Exclusive basis only without transfer 

of  the  Intellectual  Property  Rights  (IPR).  Regulatory  clearance,  if  any,  from 

Indian Statuary Bodies/Agencies will be obtained by the respective ToT holder 

industries.  ARDE,  in  any  way,  shall  not  be  liable  to  regulatory  clearance  on 

behalf  of  any  company.  However,  ARDE  shall  provide  any  assistance  if 

required for successful ToT. 

A  committee  of  experts  constituted  by  DRDO  will  visit  the  company  sites  for 

assessing strengths and capability as furnished by respective company before 

Technology Transfer.  The industry willing to take technology will be required to 

enter into a ToT agreement with DRDO as per approved terms and conditions. 

The following is required before undertaking ToT: 

a)  Industry shall have license for manufacturing / processing and filling of high 

explosives (i.e HMX based )/ det(s) used in the warhead/ Sub-munition , 

license for processing of Flexible Linear Shaped charge of required charge 

mass including licence for processing of pyro-composition & corresponding 

squibs / dets in a semi automatic manner type set up for doing the work.  

b)  In-house QA/QC department. 

In-house facilities / infrastructure required for ToT: 

i) Centrifuge test facility 0-2000 g 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ii) Facility with appropriate safety measures for assembly of detonators with 

fuze components 

iii) Humidifier / dehumidifier for proper humidity control within filling & assembly 

rooms 

How to apply 

Interested Industries may respond along with their company profile, financial & 
technical capabilities etc as per the following format:  

1.  Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per 

Indian Companies Act, 1956). 

2.  Certificate of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any. 

3.  Balance Sheet for the preceding three years. 

4.  Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period. 

5.  Details 

of 

shareholding/ownership 

pattern 

especially 

foreign 

partners/shareholders, foreign employees, directors, etc. The company must 

adhere  to  the  prevailing  Govt.  of  India  policies  and  regulations  for  Foreign 

Direct Investment (FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable. 

6.  Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel. 

7.  Record of past performance (e.g., supply orders executed against Ministry 

of Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any). 

8.  Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their production 

capacities) and technical expertise. 

9.  List of testing and support equipments. 

10. List of products being manufactured 

11. List of products being filled with High Explosives 

12. ISO/ISI certification or any other certification. 

13. Relevant clearances from the authorities/ministries (if any). 

14. Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept 

attendant financial and commercial risks. 

15. Fire safety, pollution control and other relevant certificates. 

16. Expression of interest should be stamped and signed by authorized 

signatory with formal declaration note. 

17. Any other relevant documents. 

Interested Industry may write to: 

The Director 
Armament Research and Development Establishment 
(ARDE), Armament post, Pashan Pune- 411021 

The Director 
Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management(DIITM) 
DRDO Bhawan Rajaji Marg New Delhi - 110011 

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
