Hydrophilic breathable polyurethane coating resin 

Breathability  is  a  property  of  materials  and  composites,  which  permits  the  escape  of  moisture 

and  the  heat  associated  with  that  moisture  from  the  interior  of  the  garment  to  the  outside 

environment.  In  general,  fabrics  exhibiting  a  combination  of  waterproofness,  wind  proofness, 

and water vapor permeability are referred to as breathable fabrics. These fabrics constitute one of 

the  major  components  of  individual  protective  clothing  used  in  fire  protective  clothing,  High 

altitude  conditions,  sportswear  etc.  Present  generation  breathable  fabrics  use  water  vapor 

permeable polymeric membranes for this purpose.  

The typical thickness of these membranes is ~10-30 micron, which is coated or laminated on a 

woven/ non-woven fabric to arrive at a fabric of requisite mechanical strength. These membranes 

can  generally  be  categorized  into  two  types  based  on  the  underlying  principle  behind  their 

breathability: microporosity and hydrophilicity.  

In  microporous  membranes,  the  pores  are  designed  to  be  too  small  to  permit  liquid  water 

penetration; however, they are large enough to allow free passage of vapor in water. On the other 

hand,  breathable  non-porous  polymeric  films  are  hydrophilic  films  that  contain  chemical 

functionalities  capable  of  absorbing,  diffusing,  and  desorbing  the  water  in  the  form  of  vapor. 

These  films  are  not  porous  and  are  hence  water  impermeable.  In  this  latter  scenario,  the 

breathability is attributed to the molecular absorption-diffusion-desorption mechanism, which in 

turn is driven by the temperature and humidity gradient. Most commercial hydrophilic polymeric 

membranes  or  coatings  are  based  on  polyethylene  oxide  copolymers  with  ester,  amide,  or 

urethanes. 

CFEES has developed indigenous waterproof breathable polyurethane resin formulation, which 

can  be  used  for  coating  fabrics.  The  developed  PU  film  exhibits  an  excellent  combination  of 

waterproofness (~100 mbar), tensile strength (~ 4Mpa) and breathability (~ 1400 g/m2/24h). The 

coated  fabric  prepared  using  the  developed  breathable  hydrophilic  PU  resin  exhibits 

waterproofness > 500 mbar and breathability > 1000 g/m2/24h. PU resin coated directly on base 

fabrics has a lot of potential in sportwear, rainwear, specialized military clothing etc.  

