MIGRATION OF PENSIONERS ON “SPARSH” 

1.  Who is Being Migrated? 

All legacy Pensioners are being migrated to SPARSH in a phased manner.  It is being 

ensured  that  only pensioners  with  purified  data  (where  all  information  like  mobile  no., 

Aadhar  no. 

Is  available)  are  migrated 

to  SPARSH  with 

the  minimum 

turbulence/inconvenience to the pensioners.  

2.  What Does it Imply? 

Physically  your  Pension  account  remains  in  the  same  Bank  and  Branch  but  the 

processing  and  disbursement  of  Pension  which  was  being  done  by  the  (Central 

Pension  Processing  Centre)  CPPC  of  the  Bank,  gets  shifted  to  PCDA  (Pensions), 

Prayagraj. Bank branch will only act as a face for operating of the pension account. 

3.  Migration Process and Steps Involved  

Transition  Methodology:  CGDA  through  PCDA(P)  is  exercising  due  diligence  in 

migration  of  pensioners  from  banks  to  SPARSH.  Prior  to  shifting  on  SPARSH,  data 

mapping  is  undertaken  by  PCDA  (P)  in  consultation  with  bank  where  the individual  is 

drawing  the  Pension  and  compared  with  the  data  held  with  PCDA(P)  and  only  after 

correct  mapping  of  mandatory  fields,  cases  are  migrated.  If  even  after  this  diligent 

process,  Pension  gets  stopped/reduced,  the  Pensioner  needs  to  follow  the  following 

steps:-  

(a) SPARSH  Service  Centre:  Pensioner  can  visit  nearest  SPARSH  Service  Centre 

(SBI,  PNB  &  Kotak  Mahindra  Bank  etc),  the  details  of  these  Service  Centres  ar 

avaiable  on 

the  sparsh  website  under  service 

locator 

tab  on 

the 

https://sparsh.defencepension.gov.in 

(b) Common  Service  Centre  (CSC):  An  MoU  has  been  signed  by  CGDA  with 

Common  Service  Centre  e-Governance Services  India  Ltd  with the  aim  to provide 

last mile connectivity to Pensioners especially those who reside in remote areas of 

the  country.  CSC  has  about  4.5  Lakh  operational  outlets  and 

the 

applicant/beneficiary  can  visit  any  nearby  CSC  to  enquire/  avail  pension  related 

services. Payment of services provided by the CSCs will be made directly by CGDA 

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
to CSCs as per rates fixed through MoU and the pensioner does not need to pay for 

it. 

4.  The Process and Steps Involved for Migration into SPARSH.  

The process commences as follows:- 

(a) When your pension  is transferred from the Bank to SPARSH, you will get an SMS 

giving your Username and Password for SPARSH Login. 

(b) Ensure you save this information and use it for accessing/login the SPARSH Portal. 

(c) All  other  relevant  details  on  new  system  are  available  on  SPARSH  portal 

https://sparsh.defencepension.gov.in/ 

(d) In case the pensioner has not received any SMS/ email and the Bank has informed 

him/her  that  his/her  pension  has  been  migrated  to  Sparsh,  you  can  check  the 

migration status on the above mentioned website. 

5.  SPARSH Account Creation on Receipt of Username /Password SMS 

(a) Initial SMS 

i.  All  pensioners  who  are  being  migrated  will  receive  a  SPARSH  username  and 

password  on  their  registered  mobile  number  and  email  Id  as  per  the  database 

obtained by CGDA from your Bank. 

ii.  It is therefore essential that you get your mobile number and email Id updated with 

your Bank in the first instance. 

iii.  A message as under will be received on the registered mobile number & email ID 

of the Pensioner: - 

“Dear Customer, As per PCDA directives, your Pension has been transferred from 

SBI/ BoB (respective Bank) to SPARSH (PCDA Pensions)”. 

(b) SMS for Account Creation 

i.  After message indicating migration of Pension account is received, a message for 

account  creation  along  with  Username  &  Password  will  be  received  on  your 

registered mobile number and email ID as under:- 

“Dear (Rank), Your account has been  created.Your Pensioner ID is 809xxxxxxxx 

(PPO  

No). To login and avail the services provided by SPARSH use either of 

the following options:  

(aa) Visit: https://sparsh.defencepension.gov.in  

2 

 
 
 
 
 
(ab)  Visit  nearest  SPARSH  Service  Centre.  Your  SPARSH  Account  Credentials 

are:  Username:  xxxxxxxxxxxx01Password:  xxxxxxxxxx.  For  assistance,  contact 

your HOO or  

Call 18001805325 between 9:30AM - 6:00PM (Mon- Fri) PCDA 

(Pension)18001805325.  

ii.  You  require  to  login  to  https://sparsh.defencepension.gov.in/  website  (URL) 

and  register  with  this  User  ID  and  Password.  (The  Login  tab  is  there  in  the  top 

right-hand corner). 

iii.  To 

understand 

Login 

process, 

please 

click 

on 

the 

link 

https://www.youtube.com/watchv=q59ErvBov0Y and follow steps as shown. 

3 

 
 
 
 
