9 mm FRANGIBLE AMMUNITION 

INTRODUCTION: 

There is an increased threat of close quarter battles. The use of standard handgun ammunition 
is not advisable due to the sensitivity of the facilities and risk of collateral damage. Also the 
standard ammunition of Pistol has lead core protected by copper jacket. There was a need to 
develop  new  lead  free  ammunition  which  should  be  capable  to  incapacitate  a  human  threat 
but at the same time it should disintegrate into pieces upon hitting a hard surface and in doing 
so,  the  small  fragments  quickly  lose  their  kinetic  energy  and  pose  minimal  threat  to 
secondary  targets  (No  ricochet  or  over-penetration)  so  no  possibility  of  collateral  damage. 
This  means  that  full-power  frangible  bullets  can  be  shot  at  target  all  the  way  up  to  muzzle 
contact without any worries that the bullet or case will ricochet and potentially hurt either the 
shooter or others. Also the strength of the Frangible Bullet should be such that it should be 
able to withstand the pressure inside the barrel i.e. it should remain intact but at the same time 
it should be frangible enough upon hitting a hard target. 

A  frangible  bullet  is  one  that  is  designed  to  disintegrate  into  tiny  particles  upon  impact  to 
minimize  their  penetration  for  reasons  of  range  safety,  to  limit  environmental  impact,  or  to 
limit  the  danger  behind  the  intended  target.  These  bullets  fragment  into  number  of  small 
pieces  on  impact  on  any  hard  target  like  metallic  objects,  walls,  concrete  structures  etc. 
therefore, they disintegrate upon contact with a surface harder than the bullet itself. 

TBRL has designed and developed 9mm Frangible bullets for 9mm Pistol. A frangible metal 
bullet comprises a plurality of metal particles joined together by a binder. The metal particles 
and the binder forming material are compacted together into the Shape of the bullet and then 
heated to the treatment temperature for a time sufficient to form an effective amount of the 
transient liquid phase of the binder forming material and then cooled to form the bullet. An 
effective amount of the transient liquid phase of the binder is that amount sufficient to adhere 
the metal particles into a coherent body when the transient liquid phase of the binder forms at 
least one inter metallic compound. 

Interested  Industries  are  requested  to  forward  their  Expression  of  Interest  (EoI)  to  Director 
TBRL, Chandigarh with a copy of Director DIITM, DRDO HQ on following address:- 

To, 

Director 
Terminal Ballistic Research Laboratory (TBRL) 
Sector-30, Chandigarh-160030 
Phone: 0172-2307100, 2657674 
Fax: 0172-2657506 

Email ID: director[dot]tbrl[at]gov[dot]in 

Copy to 

Director 
Directorate of Industry Interface & technology Management (DIITM) 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, DRDO HQrs, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110011 
Phone: 011-23013209/23015291 
Fax: 011-23793008 

Email: diitm[dot]hqr[at]gov]dot]in 

Industries are requested to enclose supporting document in EoI as per Appendix ‘D’ of DRDO Policy 
and  Procedure 
at  https://www.drdo.gov.in/sites/default/files/inline-
available 
files/drdo%20Policy%20%26%20Procedure%20%20for%20ToT.pdf 

for  ToT 

FORMAT FOR APPLICATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

Name and full address of the organization 

Management structure 

Contact Person with designation 

Contact numbers (Tel, e-mail, FAX etc) 

Current operation area of work 

Turnover for last three years 

Approval Registration with any Government agency 

Details of expertise available in the production of ammunition 

Regular manpower available on pay roll 

Quality assurance/ quality control facility 

Similar work done for any government agency 

Any other credentials in the subject/relevant area 

Acceptance of TBRL Terms and Conditions 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
