‘Besafe’ Technology for Accelerated Bioremediation of marine oil spill 

The remediation of pollution caused by petroleum hydrocarbons in marine environment requires several 
months  for  natural  dispersion  and  degradation  due  to  its  low  volatility  and  is  a  cause  of  concern  for  naval 
authorities and maritime countries. An eco-friendly method for rapid & effective remediation of pollutant oil in 
seawater has been developed. Bioremediation is a preferred means of clean up for petroleum hydrocarbon 
pollutants because it uses biological organisms and provides a permanent solution through biodegradation of 
oil contaminants to benign byproducts. Marine Biotechnology Dept. of NMRL, Ambernath has developed an 
innovative  approach  to  combat  the  menace  of  oil  pollution.  Two  bioremediation  agents  namely:  1. 
Biodegraders,  comprising  of  highly  efficient  three  Oil  degrading  bacteria  (ODB)  and  2.  Bioenhancer,  a 
nontoxic,  oleophilic  nutrient  formulation  as  growth  stimulant  for  ODB  have  been  developed  for  rapid 
degradation  of  pollutant  oil.  Application  method  is  odourless,  user  friendly  &  one  step  spray.  Complete 
bioremediation of pollutant oil takes place within 24 – 72 hrs. The effectiveness of the technology has been 
established for field applications. 

.

SALIENT FEATURES 

  Biomix comprises of oil degrading bacteria of marine origin. 
  Nutrimix contents non toxic,environment friendly, stable under normal environmental conditions, ready 

to mix powders. 

  Easy to scale up and cost effective bioremediation agents. 
   Suitable for weathered oil, HSD, Crude oil spills in marine waters. 
  User friendly one step spray application method of bioremediation agents. 
  Emulsification, dispersion & degradation of pollutant oil results in bioremediation. 

Application Areas 

  Naval  dockyards,  Coast  Guard,  Oil  refineries,  Commercial  ports  and  Central  /  State  Pollution  control 

boards  

 
 
 
 
 
 
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                
