Expression of Interest (EoI) for ToT of ‘High Explosive Technology for Warhead (MCHEW-1) 
of Missile System’ 

Description of Technology: 
There was a need to develop high explosive technologies for warheads to intercept various targets. 
Exhaustive studies were carried out to finalize the HE compositions and their filling methodologies 
in  warhead  to  realize  the  required  performance  lethality  at  the  desired  distances.The  warhead 
inflicts  damage  to  surrounding,  by  blast  effect  in  the  near  vicinity  and  by  fragments  at  lethal 
distance.  The  melt  cast  technology  has  been  developed  for  the  main  filling  of  the  warhead  and 
pressing  technology  for  the  booster  charge.  The  system  carries  a  Preformed  Fragmentation  (PF) 
warhead  with  more  powerful  main  filling  of  high  VoD  HE  composition  (MCHE-202)  has  been 
finalized for the warhead. Booster pellets are of HE composition (PBXP 101); they are developed for 
completion of explosive train. 

HE  casting  in  warhead  has  been  completed  successfully.  All  trials  are  completed  successfully. 
The  warhead  system  has  been  exhaustively  evaluated  in  all  modes.  Developed  high  explosive 
composition met QR. 

Application Areas: 
High explosive compositions and their filling in warhead of MCHEW-1 is designed and developed by 
DRDO to intercept various targets by the blast effect and lethal fragmentation. 

Unique Selling Point (USP): 
All the trials including User trials of warhead in both static and flight modes have  been completed 
successfully. Developed technology met QR and it is equivalent to global level. All the raw materials 
for  the  filling  of  warhead  system  are  available  indigenously.  The  equipments  required  for  the 
preparation of explosive composition filling are available indigenously.  

Contact Details 

Interested companies/industries are requested to apply against this EoI through email or by DAK to 
following address:- 

To, 

Director 

High Energy MaterialsResearch Laboratory 

Govt. of India, Ministry of Defence 

Pune-411 021 

Email-director.hemrl@gov.in 

Copy to:- 

The Director 

Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM) 

Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110 011 

Email-diitm.hqr@gov.in 

 
 
 
 
 
List of Support documents to be attached with EoI 

(a) Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian Companies Act, 
as amended time to time) 

 (b) Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any. 

 (c) Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.  

(d) Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period  

(e)  Details  of  shareholding/ownership  pattern  especially  foreign  partners/  shareholders,  foreign 
employees,  directors,  etc.  The  company  must  adhere  to  the  prevailing  Govt  of  India  policies  and 
regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable.  

(f) Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  

(g) Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company. 

 (h) Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel. 

 (i) Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of Defence orders, 
Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).  

(j)  Availability  of  adequate  infrastructure  (List  of  machines  and  their  production  capacities)  and 
technical expertise.  

(k) List of Testing and Support equipment’s 

 (l) ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification  

(m) Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any) 

 (n) Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept attendant financial and 
commercial risks.  

(o)  Capacity/capability  to  market  the  product  through  the  marketing  network,  sales  and  service 
network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 

(p)  PESO  and  DPIIT  license  for  explosive  handling  if  ToT  is  for  high  energy  Material,  explosives, 
propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc.  

(q) Under taking form company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, Independent Directors, non-
executive Directors, Key management personnel are involved in any corrupt practices, unfair means 
and illegal activities. 

(r) Details of the industrials license for defence manufacturing be provided by the industry seeking 
ToTs. 

 
