PRODUCT DESCRIPTION DOCUMENT 

EBW Detonator based Exploder System for Naval Warheads 

Exploder  is  a  critical  subsystem  of  Naval  warhead,  which  ensures  safety  of  the 

warhead  in  transportation,  handling,  storage  and  operations.  Exploder  prevents 

inadvertent  arming  and detonation  of  warhead by  removing all  safety  interlocks  and 

initiating explosive train only when intended. 

As  part  of  the  Torpedo  and  Sea  Mines  development  program  taken  up  by  NSTL, 

TBRL has designed  and developed Exploder  and  Warhead  for  Light weight torpedo 

TAL  and  Exploder  for  Heavy  weight  torpedo  VARUNASTRA  and  Multi  Influence 

Ground Mine(MIGM) 

EBW  detonator  based  Exploder  for  HWT  VARUNASTRA  and  MIGM  is  a  new 

generation  Exploder  system  that  besides  incorporating  various  safety  interlocks, 

houses a high voltage unit for initiating high energy detonators. It has modular design 

with  no  moving  component  and  significant  reduction  in  number  of  components  as 

compared  to  traditional  exploder  system.    Exploder  mechanism  provides  various 

prescribed  safeties  to  prevent  inadvertent  initiation  of  warhead  during  storage, 

transportation, handling and operations. Safeties provided by exploder are mentioned 

below: 

A)  Storage and Transportation Safety 

i.  Detonator holder is kept separate from exploder and need to be placed only 

for War shot torpedo 

B) Handling  Safety 

i. 

EBW detonator needs high voltage short pulse supply to function 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ii. 
iii. 

Exploder does not have any battery 
+28V is made available when torpedo enters water 

C)Depth Safety 

i. Depth sensor is normally shorted so that  power supply doesn’t reach second 
stage. At 3m±1m depth sensors operates 

D) Course Safety 

i. 

ii. 

Another  safety  break  is  provided  that  open  only  when  Enable  switch  is 
closed by torpedo’s OBC 
Final safety break is impact switch and proximity switch that closes only on 
an impact of 3g or higher. 

Fig1. Shows sequence of operations of Exploder system 

Fig 1: Exploder Sequence of Operations 

EBW detonator based Exploder is immune to spurious stimulus pulses like EMI and 

EMP  and  initiates  the  Warhead  on  proximity  or  impact  to  the  target.  Exploder  has 

qualified all QT and AT level tests and ready for warshot trials. As this exploder uses 

state  of  the  art  technology,  it  can  be  used  in  all  future  Naval  weapons  warhead  like 

Torpedoes and Multi Influence Ground Mine. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
