SPARSH: FAQs 

1. What should I do if I am facing trouble while availing services on 

SPARSH Portal? 

1.  Check your internet connection. 

2.  Check your browser compatibility. 

3.  You can alternatively reach out to SPARSH Helpline or visit the nearest 

Service Center to avail services. 

2. How to locateService Centers in my area? 

1.  Go to https://sparsh.defencepension.gov.in 

2.  Go To: Contact & Support > SPARSH Near You > Service Center Locator 

3.  You are required to carry your mobile phone to avail services at a Service 

Center, verify yourself using OTP sent to your Registered Mobile Number 

(RMN), or answer a set of Security Questions. 

4.  Service Centers Working Hours: 9:30 AM - 6:00 PM (Monday to Friday). 

5.  All services available on SPARSH can be availed via Pensioner Portal as well 

as Service Centers without any charges. 

3. If I have not received any SMS/ email regarding my user ID and 

Password? 

1. Go to url https://sparsh.defencepension.gov.in 

2. Login by entering your PPO No. and suffix 01 to it (self pensioner) otherwise 

suffix 02 or 03 or 04 and so on (in case of family pensioner suffix no. is as per 

serial no. of family member mentioned in PPO). For example, if PPO No. is 

111111111 then user ID will be 11111111101 (for self pensioner) and 

11111111102 or 11111111103 or 11111111104 and so on (in case of family 

pensioner, depends on serial no. of family member mentioned in PPO) 

3. Click on Forgot Password at the bottom of the window. You will receive a 

1 

password. Enter the password to login and change password. 

4. How can I view/ download my pension details? (Basic Pension, Disability 

Element, Gratuity, Other Entitlements, PPO, Pension slip etc.) 

1. Log in to your SPARSH account. 

2. Thereafter, you can view details via My Documents > Entitlements  

3. You can access your PPO via My Documents > PPO 

4. You can access your Pension Slip via My Documents > Pension Slip 

5. Where can I find the current & previous rates of DR applicable? 

The table of Dearness Relief (DR) rates applicable till date is available on 

SPARSH. 

Go To: Pension Orders & Information > Common Problems > Dearness Relief 

6. What to do if I am not getting correct rate of disability element? 

You can raise a payment related grievance for the same by logging into your 

SPARSH account. 

Log in to your SPARSH account, and go to: Grievances > Payment Related > 

Elements of Pension 

7. How can I view my projected tax details of the financial year? 

Log in to your SPARSH account, and go to: Services > Projected Tax Summary 

8. Where can I find the current & previous rates of Fixed Medical Allowance 

applicable? 

The details for Fixed Medical Allowance (FMA) along with the applicable rates till 

date is available on SPARSH. 

Go To: Pension Orders & Information > Common Problems > Fixed Medical 

Allowance 

2 

 
 
 
9. My annual identification is due. How can I identify myself in SPARSH? 

1.  You can identify yourself using Aadhar, or provide life certificates issued by 

designated authorities to have the entitled pension credited to your bank 

account. 

For identification using Aadhar (Digital Life Certificate): Go To: Services > 

Identification > Digital Life Certificate 

For identification using Manual Life Certificate: Go To: Services > Identification 

> Manual Life Certificate 

2.  The videos on the process of identification are as follows: 

1. Different modes of identification--https://youtu.be/llZJH11mGSs 

2. How to perform identification through MLC--https://youtu.be/FWsqaaxLwBI 

3. How to perform identification through Jeevan Pramaan-- 

https://youtu.be/ILKxSPFD_LQ 

10. How can I view my next identification due date? 

Go To: Services > Identification, and view details of your identification completed, 

including last identification date & next identification due date 

11. How can I obtain a blank form of Manual Life Certificate? 

You can identify yourself using Aadhar, or provide life certificates issued by 

designated authorities to have the entitled pension credited to your bank account. 

For identification using Manual Life Certificate: 

1. Go To: Services > Identification > Perform Identification 

2. Generate your MLC Number & download the blank form for Manual Life 

Certificate 

Note:  There  is  no  time  limit  for  uploading  of  Manual  Life  Certificate  after 

download  on  Portal.  It  can  be  uploaded  anytime  on  SPARSH.  Manual  Life 

Certificate once submitted for identification for a certain period cannot be reused. 

3 

12. Whether I would be able to receive all my pensionary arrears on delayed 

identification? 

Yes. Upon delayed identification, all applicable pensionary arrears shall be paid. 

13. Who can issue/ sign Life Certificates? 

Life Certificates can be issued/signed by one or other of the following authorities. 

(i) Any person exercising the power of a Magistrate under the Criminal Procedure 

Code, 1898 (5 of 1898). 

(ii) A Registrar or Sub-Registrar under the Registration Act, 1908 (16 of 1908). 

(iii) Any pensioned Officer who before retirement exercised the powers of a 

Magistrate. 

(iv) Any Gazetted Officer of Government. 

(v) A Munsif. 

(vi) A Post Master. 

(vii) A Departmental Sub Post Master. 

(viii) An Inspector of Post Offices. 

(ix) A Class I Officer of the Reserve Bank of India. 

(x) An Officer of the State Bank of India. 

(xi) An Officer of a subsidiary Bank of the State Bank of India. 

(xii) Head of a Village Panchayat, Gram Panchayat or Gaon Panchayat. 

(xiii) Head of an Executive Committee of a village. 

(xiv) An officer of a bank included in the second Schedule to the Reserve Bank of 

India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934) in respect of pensioner drawing his/her pension 

through that Bank. 

(xv) A Police Officer not below the rank of Sub-Inspector-in-Charge of a Police 

Station. 

(xvi) A member of Lok Sabha/Rajya Sabha/Vidhan Sabha/Vidhan Parishad or a 

Corporator of Municipal Corporation or a Councilor of a Municipality. 

(xvii) In the case of pensioners reemployed a life certificate furnished by the 

4 

pensioner signed by the Head of the office, where he is re-employed. 

(xviii) A District Sainik Welfare officer- (DSWO). 

14. What all biometric devices are compatible with SPARSH? 

For recommended list of biometric devices : Click Here 

SPARSH- Life Certificate through different modes Click Here 

15. How do I report death of a family member in SPARSH? 

Go To: Services > Report Event > Death, and provide required details along with 

copy of Death Certificate 

16. How do I report about a missing family member in SPARSH? 

Go To: Services > Report Event > Missing, and provide required details along 

with copy of FIR 

17. How do I report about a convicted family member in SPARSH? 

Go To: Services > Report Event > Conviction, and provide required details along 

with copy of Judgement 

18. How to Initiate Family Pension? 

You can request for your share of pension via Initiate Family Pension 

Go To: Services > Report Event > Initiate Family Pension, and provide required 

details alongwith necessary documents as applicable 

19. How do I update my basic details (Mobile Number, Bank Account 

Number, PAN etc.) in SPARSH? 

After the identification process is complete and approved, you can manage & 

update your profile details like personal details, service details, family details etc. 

by logging in to your SPARSH account. 

Log in to your SPARSH account, and go to: My Profile > Manage Profile 

5 

20. How do I add/remove family details (Spouse/Dependents) in SPARSH? 

After the identification process is complete and approved, you can manage & 

update your profile details like personal details, service details, family details etc. 

by logging in to your SPARSH account. 

Log in to your SPARSH account, and go to: My Profile > Manage Profile 

21. How can I declare my investments or proof of savings for tax purposes 

in SPARSH? 

You can declare & manage your investments in SPARSH by logging into your 

SPARSH account. 

Log in to your SPARSH account, and go to: Service Requests > Investment 

Declarations 

22. How can I apply for commutation in SPARSH? 

You can apply for commutation by logging into your SPARSH account. 

Log in to your SPARSH account, and go to: Service Requests > Commutation 

Requests 

23. I have registered a Service Request in SPARSH. How can I track it? 

You can raise a payment related grievance for the same by logging into your 

SPARSH account. 

Log in to your SPARSH account, and go to: Grievances > Payment Related > 

Deduction 

24. How can I report or update re-employment details including discharge 

from re-employment? 

After the identification process is complete and approved, you can report your 

employment/re-employment details by logging in to your SPARSH account. 

Log in to your SPARSH account, and go to: My Profile > Employment/Re-

Employment 

6 

25. How can I report my marriage/re-marriage? 

After the identification process is complete and approved, you can report your 

marriage/remarriage details by logging in to your SPARSH account. 

Log in to your SPARSH account, and go to: My Profile > Report Remarriage 

26. How can I request to stop my Fixed Medical Allowance for availing 

CGHS facility? 

For Indian resident pensioners: If you don't wish to continue availing Fixed 

Medical Allowance (FMA), you need to update the FMA option in your personal 

profile by logging in to your SPARSH account. 

Go to: My Profile > Manage Profile > Personal Details > Fixed Medical Allowance 

27. How to draw Fixed Medical Allowance if I am not availing any CGHS 

facility? 

For Indian resident pensioners: If you wish to opt for Fixed Medical Allowance 

(FMA), you need to update the FMA option in your personal profile by logging in 

to your SPARSH account. 

Note: Your address should be part of the districts eligible for FMA. Please verify 

your address before applying for FMA. 

Go to: My Profile > Manage Profile > Personal Details > Fixed Medical Allowance 

28. How can I claim death gratuity of my late husband? 

The demise of the deceased member needs to be reported first 

Go To: Services > Report Event > Death, and provide required details along with 

copy of Death Certificate 

Once approved by the competent authority, apply claim for Family Pension & 

Death Gratuity. 

Go To: Services > Report Event > Initiate Family Pension, and provide required 

details along with necessary documents as applicable 

7 

29. What are straight through profile requests? How can I identify them? 

Available to registered users on SPARSH, Straight Through Profile Requests 

don't need authorization from the competent concerned authorities. 

You can refer the legends displayed on your profile page to identify such 

requests (My Profile > Manage Profile) 

Example: 

1. Change in personal details like Residential Address, Mobile Number, Email ID, 

Aadhaar Number, PAN etc. 

2. Change in Bank Details (For Indian Nationals) 

30. What are approval based profile requests? How can I identify them? 

Available to registered users on SPARSH, Straight Through Profile Requests 

don't need authorization from the competent concerned authorities. 

You can refer the legends displayed on your profile page to identify such 

requests (My Profile > Manage Profile) 

Example: 

1. Change in personal details like Name, Date of Birth etc. 

2. Change in Service Details like Non Qualifying Service, Gallantry Awards etc. 

3. Addition/Removal of Spouse/Dependent Details 

Grievance related Questions 

31. I am receiving lesser payment than the sanctioned amounts in my PPO. 

How do I report such incorrect payments in SPARSH? 

You can raise a payment related grievance for the same by logging into your 

SPARSH account. 

Log in to your SPARSH account, and go to: Grievances > Payment Related > 

Elements of Pension 

8 

32. My PPO doesn't have some elements I'm entitled for, and I am not being 

paid the same. How do I report such incorrect payments in SPARSH? 

You can raise a payment related grievance for the same by logging into your 

SPARSH account. 

Log in to your SPARSH account, and go to: Grievances > Payment Related > 

Elements Not Sanctioned in Pension 

33. My tax has been deducted wrongly. How do I report such incorrect 

deductions in SPARSH? 

You can raise a payment related grievance for the same by logging into your 

SPARSH account. 

Log in to your SPARSH account, and go to: Grievances > Payment Related > 

Deduction 

34. My amount for recovery is being displayed incorrectly in my PPO. How 

do I report such incorrect deductions in SPARSH? 

You can raise a payment related grievance for the same by logging into your 

SPARSH account. 

Log in to your SPARSH account, and go to: Grievances > Payment Related > 

Deduction 

35. I have registered a Grievance in SPARSH. How can I track it? 

You can raise & track grievances in SPARSH. 

For unregistered users (without login credentials), For registered users (with valid 

login credentials) 

36. How can I claim Constant Attendant Allowance? 

You can raise a payment related grievance for the same by logging into your 

SPARSH account. 

9 

Log in to your SPARSH account, and go to: Grievances > Payment Related > 

Elements Not Sanctioned in Pension 

37. How to intimate about overpayments to the disbursing agency? 

You can raise a payment related grievance for the same by logging into your 

SPARSH account. 

Log in to your SPARSH account, and go to: Grievances > Payment Related > 

Elements of Pension 

38. What should I do if I am not getting dearness relief? 

You can raise a payment related grievance for the same by logging into your 

SPARSH account. 

Log in to your SPARSH account, and go to: Grievances > Payment Related > 

Elements of Pension 

39. Can I raise a grievance against a service request? 

Yes. You can raise a grievance against a completed Service Request by 

providing details of the service request for reference (Request ID, Request Date 

etc.) 

40. Whom and how to approach if I am not getting correct pension? 

You can raise a payment related grievance for the same using any of the 

following modes: 

1. Log into your SPARSH account 

2. Call the SPARSH Helpline 

3. Visit the nearest Service Center 

10 

 
