Image & Video Processing for Net Centric Operations (IVP_NCO) 

CAIR  has  developed  an  application  framework  for  the  Net  Centric  Operations  (NCO).  In  the 
NCO scenario, the sensors, shooters and commanders are  spatially separated, requiring sharing 
of  imagery  across  tactical  networks  for  their  processing,  archival,  retrieval  and  exploitation. 
Various technologies are integrated in the developed application, Image & Video Processing for 
Net Centric Operations (IVP_NCO), and these are being offered as a “capital good” to be used 
by  a  production  agency  in  designing  adaptations  or  new  products.  The  integrated  technologies 
consist of efficient and robust implementation of a wide variety of image and video processing 
algorithms. The key features of the offering are listed as follows: 

1.  Implementations  of  algorithms  in  C/C++,  compatible  with  JAVA  through  stable  JNI 
wrappers.  The  implementations  are  efficient  in  terms  of  memory  and  computations, 
modular for easy portability and adaptability, and have a uniform interface design. 

2.  Comprehensive  set  of  algorithms,  including  geo-registration,  segmentation,  codecs  for 
progressive  image/video  transmission,  tracking,  fusion,  mosaicking,  super-resolution, 
video  stabilization  and  content  based  image  and  video  retrieval  etc.  These  also 
incorporate Machine Learning methods applicable to image and video processing. Some 
of the key features also include: 

a.  Meta-data binding and metadata based annotation and search 
b.  Example based query-retrieval for images and videos 
c.  Selective remote archiving as well as selective remote access of the imagery 
d.  Optimized for bandwidth challenged and fault-prone networks. 
e.  Support for range of standard image and video digital formats. 

3.  Optimizations aware of the NCO context, namely bandwidth, connectivity,  and storage, 

through schemes other than data compression. 

4.  Incorporation  in  a  JAVA  based  enterprise  class  application  framework  with  3-Tier 
architecture,  supporting  login  based  user  management,  remote  retrieval  from  database, 
backend data processing, high availability and easy maintenance. 

IVP_NCO is in a fully implemented state. The software has undergone Independent Verification 
and Validation (IV&V) by a CMMi5 qualified external agency. It can potentially be deployed for 
military use or can be adapted to a large scale image and video data management system. Many 
of  the  technologies  developed  therein  have  also  been  exploited  in  surveillance  and  robotics 
applications under development at CAIR. 

  
 
 
