Photocatalytic Degradation of dye using CuS thin films developed by CVD 
method on glass substrate 

Textile  industry  represents  a  pollution  problem  worldwide  due  to  the  accidental 

discharge  or  dumping  of  polluted  wastewater  into  the  waterways,  which  is  having  a 

major  influence  on  the  quality  of  water  resources.  Around  17–20%  of  industrial  water 

pollution arises from textile dyeing and treatment. This represents a large environmental 

challenge for textile  manufacturers. With  growing  environmental awareness,  there  is a 

need  for  environmentally-friendly  technology  to  remove  dyes  from  the  industrial  and 

local  wastewater.  The  photo  decolorization  of  dyes  is  considered  as  a  favorable 

technology  for industrial wastewater treatment  techniques  owing  to  its  environmentally 

friendly  method,  low  cost,  and  lack  of  secondary  pollution.  The  efficiency  of 

photocatalysis  system  depends  on  the  operational  parameters  that  govern  the 

adsorption  and  photodegradation  of  dye  molecules.  The  findings  showed  that  various 

parameters,  like  initial  pH  of  the  solution  to  be  degraded,  photocatalyst  concentration, 

reaction  temperature,  dye  concentration  and  dopants  content  exert  their  individual 

influence on the photocatalytic degradation of any dye. 

In  view  of  above  there  was  a  need  to  develop  CuS  thin  film  over  a  cost  effective 

substrates such as glass, quartz or metallic sheets using a single source precursor. This 

CuS thin film /coatings can be used for photocatalytic activity without imposing any side 

effect  and  also  it  can  be  used  for  several  times.  DMSRDE,  Kanpur  has  developed 

Thiourea  Copper  (II)  precursor  and  a  process  for  preparation  of  CuS  thin  film  in  bulk 

using the single source precursor tetra thiourea complex under improved CVD process 

by controlling temperature under inert atmosphere. The developed CuS thin film shows 

excellent photocatalyticdegradation of organic dyes which are serious causing of water 

pollution through industrial wastes. 

Page 1 of 1 

 
 
