Bi-Modular Charge System (BMCS) for 155 mm Artillery Guns 

HEMRL  has  developed  a  BMCS  adoptable  to  various  155 
mm  artillery  guns  operating  in  all  Indian  terrains.  It  replaces  the 
traditional  cloth  bag  charge  system  which  consists  of  a number of 
increments  to  achieve  full  range.    Modular  charge  consists  of  a 
combustible  case  (CC)  filled  with  cooler  propellant  to  achieve 
improved barrel life and eliminates the wastage of propellant.   

The BMCS consists of two types of charges – Lower Zones 

(LZ) for shorter ranges and Higher Zones (HZ) for longer ranges.  The system utilises 
fully  indigenous  raw  materials,  equipments  and  processes.    Debris-free  burning  is 
ensured over a wide range of operating temperatures  to take care of different weather 
conditions  prevailing  in  Siachen  to  Rajasthan.  Apart  from  primary  ammunition, 
secondary  ammunition  can  also  be  fired  with  BMCS.  The  BMCS  was  extensively 
evaluated and provisional range tables are generated. BMCS is adoptable to various 
guns by generating requisite range tables and are finalised during initial production. 

Interested  Industries  may  respond  along  with  their  company  profile,  financial  & 
technical capabilities etc as per the following format – 

(a)   Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian 

Companies Act, 1956) 

(b)   Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any. 
(c)   Balance Sheet for the preceding three years. 
(d)  
(e)   Details  of  shareholding/ownership  pattern  especially 

Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period 

foreign  partners/ 
shareholders,  foreign  employees,  directors,  etc.  The  company  must  adhere  to 
the  prevailing  Govt  of  India  policies  and  regulations  on  Foreign  Direct 
Investment (FDI). 
Annual budget for R&D during last three years. 

(f)  
(g)   Numbers and details of IPR or patents etc held by the company. 
(h)   Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel. 
(i)  

Record of past performance (e.g Supply orders executed against of Ministry of 
Defence orders, public sectors and paramilitary forces, if any. 
Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their production 
capacities) and technical expertise. 
List of Testing and Support equipments 
ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification 

(k)  
(l)  
(m)   Relevant  clearances form  the  authorities/  ministries  including  relevant  licenses 

(j)  

for processing/ storing & production of explosives from DIPP & PESO 

(n)   Capacity  and  capability  to  undertake  developmental  work  and  to  accept 

attendant financial and commercial risks. 

(o)   Capacity/Capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales 

and service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 

     
 
 Eligible parties will be evaluated as per the procedure in vogue for giving Transfer of 
Technology (TOT) on non-exclusive basis.  

Interested industry may write to Director, HEMRL Pune on the following address - 

Director, HEMRL 
DRDO, Min. of Defence, 
Sutarwadi 
Pune – 411021 
They may also contact on phone – (020) 25869316 

or 

Director, DIITM,DRDO HQ,  
Min. of Defence, DRDO Bhawan,  
Room No. 447, B Block, 
Rajaji Marg, New Delhi - 110011 
Phone – 011 23013209 

 
 
