Expression of Interest for  

“40mm High Explosive Anti-Personnel (HEAP) Grenade for UBGL” 

Introduction 

1.  HEAP  Grenade  is  used  with  40mm  Under  Barrel  Grenade  Launcher  (UBGL)  and  Multiple 
Grenade Launcher (MGL) in anti-personnel role. The internally notched warhead and adequate 
high  explosive  content  ensure  anti-personnel  lethality  up  to 
more  than  5m  distance  from  the  point  of  explosion  with 
adequate  hit  density.  The  grenade  is  fitted  with  a  reserve 
battery  based  advanced  Point  Detonating  and  Self-
Destruction (PDSD) Fuze.  
The salient features of the grenade are as below: 
a.  Compatible  with 

in-service  40mm  UBGL  and  MGL        

weapons held by Indian Armed Forces including CAPFs 

b. Range: more than 375m 
c.  Muzzle Velocity: 76±3 m/s 
d.  Fuze: Electro-mechanical type with self-destruction feature 

2.  Scope / responsibility / terms & conditions 

I.  The firm would be required to realize components, empty and filled sub-systems and system 
integration  for  production  and  supply  of  the  grenades  to  Indian  Armed  Forces,  including 
CAPFs. 

II.  The firm  will be required to source the Fuze from DRDO developed supply chain. The firm 

may prefer to source components from DRDO developed sources. 

III.  It would be prudent for the firm to support other industries, issued ToT licenses by DRDO, for 
supply  of  critical  components,  if  any,  for  establishing  a  synergized  eco-system  towards 
attaining complete self-reliance. 

IV.  The  firm  should  have  valid  license  for  manufacturing  and  assembly  of  grenades  or 

ammunitions of similar class. 

V.  The firm should have PESO license as applicable for handling the explosive sub-systems. 

3.  Other requirements 

I. 

II. 

III. 

IV. 

The ToT seeking firm should provide evidence of availability of adequate infrastructure (List 
of machines and their production capacities) and technical expertise. 
The  firm  should  have  experience  of  minimum  05  years  in  the  field  of  ammunition 
manufacturing. Record of past performance in this regard to be submitted. 
The  firm  should  provide  Audited  Balance  Sheet  and  Income  Tax  returns  for  the  preceding 
three years. 
The  firm  should  submit  undertaking  that  none  of  its  Directors,  Independent  Directors,  non-
executive Directors, Key management personnel are involved in any corrupt practices, unfair 
means and illegal activities. 

4.  

Special Conditions:- 

I. 

II. 

The  firm  should  have  in-house  manufacturing  facility/indigenous  source  for  all  the  explosive 
components, including but not limited to, Primer and Double Base Propellant. 

The firm should have experience of minimum 05 years in the field of ammunition manufacturing. 
Record of past performance in this regard to be submitted 

 
 
 
Contact Details 

Interested companies/industries are requested to apply against this EoI to following address:- 

To, 

Director 

Armament Research & Development Establishment (ARDE) 

DRDO, Govt. of India, Ministry of Defence 

Dr. Homi Bhabha Road, Pashan, Armament, Pune -411 021 

Email-director.arde@gov.in 

Copy to (without attachement) 

The Director 

Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM) 

Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110 011 

Email-diitm.hqr@gov.in 

List of Support documents to be attached with EoI 

(a)   Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian Companies 

Act, as amended time to time) 

 (b)   Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any. 

 (c)   Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.  

(d)  

Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period  

(e)   Details of shareholding/ownership pattern especially foreign partners/ shareholders, foreign 
employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt of India policies 
and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable.  

(f)  

Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  

(g)   Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company. 

 (h)   Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel. 

 (i)   Record  of  past  performance  (e.g.,  Supply  orders  executed  against  of  Ministry  of  Defence 

orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).  

(j)  

Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their production capacities) and 
technical expertise.  

(k)  

List of Testing and Support equipment’s 

 
 
 
 
 (l)  

ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification  

(m)   Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any) 

(n)   Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept attendant financial 

and commercial risks.  

(o)   Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales and service 

network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 

(p)   PESO  and  DPIIT  license  for  explosive  handling  if  ToT  is  for  high  energy  Material, 

explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc.  

(q)   Under taking form company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, Independent Directors, 
non-executive Directors, Key management personnel are involved in any corrupt practices, 
unfair means and illegal activities. 

(r)  

Details  of  the  industrials  license  for  defence  manufacturing  be  provided  by  the  industry 
seeking ToTs. 

  
 
 
 
 
 
