Manufacturing of Dual Thrust Extruded Double Base Propellant Grain No. 
MPA-T1330-B/S 

HEMRL  has  developed  Dual  Thrust  Extruded  Double  Base  (EDB)  propellant  for 
Portable Anti tank Guided Missile and the propellant has performed successfully as 
per requirement in static, dynamic and number of flight trials. The desired pressure-
time  and  thrust-time  profile  and  missile  maximum  range  is  achieved  using  a  Dual 
Thrust EDB propellant grain of high energy and high burn rate which was achieved 
by  using  special  burn  rate  modifiers  in  the  EDB  propellant  formulation.  The 
propellant performance was meeting all the ballistic requirements. 

Technology  for  manufacture  of  dual  thrust  EDB  propellant  is  different  from 
conventional  extruded  double  base  (EDB)  propellant  and  composite  propellant 
processing.  The  propellant  has  unique  characteristics  of  low  temperature  and 
pressure  sensitivities.  This  ensures  minimum  variation  in  propellant  performance 
over wide range of temperature conditions. These unique properties are coupled with 
good mechanical properties suitable for free standing grain and smokeless exhaust. 
These properties can be achieved by manufacturing process optimized by HEMRL. 

The  propellant  composition  has  been  established  by  HEMRL  using  indigenously 
available  ingredients  and  special  burn  rate  modifiers.  After  development  trials  and 
successful  validation,  propellant  development  has  been  completed.  The 
manufacturing of dual thrust EDB propellant involves various steps like NC-NG paste 
preparation,  kneading,  rolling,  extrusion,  annealing,  maturation 
followed  by 
machining  and  inhibition  processes  which  were  established  by  HEMRL  during 
development. 

Now, the EDB propellant developed by HEMRL is ready for TOT by manufacturing/ 
production agencies. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Contact Details 

Interested companies/industries are requested to apply against this EOI to following 
address:- 

To, (with attachments) 

Director 

High Energy Materials Research Laboratory (HEMRL) 

DRDO, Govt. of India, Ministry of Defence 

Sutarwadi, Pune-411021 

Email-director.hemrl@gov.in 

Copy to: - (without attachments) 

The Director 

Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM) 

Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi- 110011 

Email-diitm.hqr@gov.in 

(a) Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian 
Companies Act, as amended time to time)  

(b) Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.  

(c) Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.  

(d) Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period  

foreign  partners/ 
(e)  Details  of  shareholding/ownership  pattern  especially 
shareholders,  foreign  employees,  directors,  etc.  The  company  must  adhere  to  the 
prevailing  Govt  of  India  policies  and  regulations  on  Foreign  Direct  Investment 
(FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable.  

(f) Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  

(g) Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company.  

(h) Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel.  

 
 
 
(i) Record  of  past  performance  (e.g.,  Supply  orders executed  against  of  Ministry  of 
Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).  

(j)  Availability  of  adequate  infrastructure  (List  of  machines  and  their  production 
capacities) and technical expertise.  

(k)  List  of  Testing  and  Support  equipments  (l)  ISO/  ISI  certification  or  any  other 
certification  

(m) Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any)  

(n) Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept attendant 
financial and commercial risks. 

 (o)  Capacity/capability  to  market  the  product  through  the  marketing  network,  sales 
and service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality.  

(p) PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy Material, 
explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc. 

 (q) Under taking form company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, Independent 
Directors, non-executive Directors, Key management personnel are involved in any 
corrupt practices, unfair means and illegal activities. 

(r  )  Details  of  the  industries  license  for  defence  manufacturing  be  provided  by  the 
industry seeking ToTs. 

 
