Expression of Interest (EoI) for Assembly, Integration & 

Checkout GNC Kit for Project 1404 

Technology Overview 

1. 

ARDE  had  developed  Pinaka  rocket,  a  free  flight,  all-weather,  indirect  fire  artillery 

rocket  system  with  lower  accuracy  over  extended  ranges.  This  delivery  error  over 

extended  ranges  can  be  mitigated  by  using  an  on  board  inertial  guidance  system 

aided by satellite navigation.  

2. 

The accuracy has been improved by integrating the guidance, navigation and control 

(GNC) kit to the rocket system. Hence the GNC Kit was developed and integrated to 

the unguided Pinaka rocket, converting it to a Guided weapon. 

3. 

GNC  Kit  consists  of  the  actuation  system,  the  On  board  Computer  systems,  power 

supply and telemetry systems. 

4. 

The  Line  Replaceable  Unit  (LRU),  Launch  Computer  system  (LC),  power  supplies 

and Ground telemetry station are required during the testing phase of the GNC Kit. 

Terms and Conditions 

1. 

Processing of EOI applications shall start after 10 days from the date of publication 

on DRDO website.  

2. 

Industries desirous of participating in EOI should be willing to integrate full systems 

for qualification trials. 

3. 

4. 

The company turnover should be greater than Rs.75 Cr per annum. 

Documents  to  be  submitted  with  EoI.  The  company  must  provide  details  about 

company and documents in support of their claim as per Appendix- A. Any additional 

documents as required by DRDO shall be sought based on request received from the 

interested industries.  

5. 

The industry should essentially have previous experience in integration/production of 

one  or  more  of  the  following  systems:  Complex  engineering  systems.  Aerospace 

grade  systems,  weapon  systems,  airborne  related  systems,  space  related  systems, 

Missile systems etc.  

6. 

Previous  &  on-going  experience  of  delivery  of  above  systems  with  clearance  by 

Defence QA agencies like DGQA, MSQA/R&QA, RCI, CQA. 

7. 

The  Industry  should  also  have  skilled  manpower,  established  quality  management 

system,  willingness  and  capability  to  setup  specialized  infrastructure,  experience  in 

handling large supply chain. 

 
 
 
8. 

The Other Terms and conditions for industry seeking ToT are the following:-  

a)  Submission of EOI does not guarantee ToT to applicant industry. 

b)  The other terms and conditions are as per the ‘DRDO Policy and Procedures 

for ToT’ for Category ‘A’ mentioned at 

https://www.drdo.gov.in/sites/default/files/inline-

files/DRDO%20Policy%20%26%20Procedure%20%20for%20ToT.pdf at 

DRDO website.  

Contact Details  

9. 

The desirous industries should send their Expression of Interest (EoI) to Director, RCI  

on the following address:-  

Director, 

Research Centre Imarat (RCI) 

Vignanyana Kancha 

Hyderabad- 500 028  

Fax:040-24306002 

E-Mail: director[at]rcilab[dot]in  

Copy to:-  

Director,  

Directorate of Industry Interface and Technology Management (DIITM),  

DRDO Headquarters,  

DRDO Bhawan, Rajaji Marg, 

New Delhi- 110011.  

Fax: 011-23793008. 

E-Mail: diitm[dot]hqr[at]gov[dot]in  

 tot[dot]hqr[a]gov[dot]in 

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Appendix-A 

List of support documents to be attached with EOI 

a)  Memorandum  and  Articles  of  Association  (Should  be  incorporated  as  per  Indian 

Companies Act, as amended time to time)  

b)  Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.  

c)  Audited  Balance  Sheet,  turnover  and  net  worth  of  the  company  for  the  preceding 

three years.  

d)  Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period  

e)  Details  of  shareholding/ownership  pattern  especially  foreign  partners/  shareholders, 
foreign employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt of 
India  policies  and  regulations  on  Foreign  Direct  Investment  (FDI)/DIPP  norms  as 
applicable.  

f)  Annual budget (if any) for R&D during last three years. 

g)  Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company.  

h)  Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel.  

i)  Record  of  past  performance  (e.g.,  Supply  orders  executed  against  of  Ministry  of 

Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).  

j)  Availability  of  adequate  infrastructure  (List  of  machines  and  their  production 

capacities) and technical expertise to assemble, integrate and test GNC Kits.  

k)  List of Testing and Support equipments  

l) 

ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification (if any). 

m)  Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any).  

n)  Capacity  and  capability  to  undertake  developmental  work  and  to  accept  attendant 

financial and commercial risks. 

o)  Capacity/capability  to  market  the  product  through  the  marketing  network,  sales  and 

service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality.  

p)  Under  taking  from  company  seeking  ToT  that  none  of  its  Directors,  Independent 
Directors,  non-executive  Directors,  and  Key  management  personnel  are  involved  in 
any corrupt practices, unfair means and illegal activities.  

q)  Under taking from Company seeking ToT in respect of Para 1 (g) and Para  1(h) of 

EoI.  

r)  Brief description of R&D facilities and certificates recognised by any Govt agencies.  

