Milk Testing Kit- Mark II 

MILK-Q-TEST 

Mark II Strip test kit for multiple adulterant detection in milk 

Mark II test kit has been envisaged as a portable, light weight, convenient, cost effective 

kit  for  popular  household  testing  of  milk  quality,  to  make  acceptance  or  rejection  decision 

within 5 minutes. 

In  developing  countries,  milk  is  adulterated  to  meet  demand  especially  during  festive 

seasons  and  to  increase  profit  through  fraudulent  means.    Adulterated  milk  poses  serious 

health  issues  to  the  consumer  including  risks  of  cancer,  kidney  failure,  heart  attack  etc. 

Synthetic milk is a mixture of vegetable oil, urea, cane sugar, neutralizers and detergents at 

appropriate proportions. Most of these adulterants are used to mimic the colour, consistency, 

solids-not- fat, nitrogen content and some are added to preserve milk for longer times.  Many 

cases  of  adulteration  and  manufacture  of  synthetic  milk  have  been  reported  from  different 

parts  of  India  in  the  recent  past.  Additionally,  India  has  received  an  advisory  from  World 

Health Organization (WHO) which stated that failure to check adulteration in milk and milk 

products  would  see  87%  of  Indian  citizens  suffering  from  serious  diseases  like  cancer  by 

2025. 

Multiple adulterant test strips (MATS) is a rapid test for detecting 7 adulterants in milk 

viz., boric acid, detergent, hydrogen peroxide, neutralizer, soap, starch  and urea  and also to 

test  microbial  freshness  of  milk.  Acceptance  or  rejection  decision  can  be  taken  within  5 

minutes. The cost of 80 tests (8 per card) is less than INR 50. It is envisaged as an affordable, 

light weight, user friendly, portable, rapid testing device for popular household use.  

       
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Mark II Test Kit contains Multiple adulterant test strips (MATS), dropper for adding 

milk ,a reference colour scale  shown on the test device and an instruction manual .Reagents 

entrapped on small sized paper strip give colour reactions on addition of  1 drop (50µL) milk. 

The principle and working of the detection strips are simple color forming reactions resulting 

in the formation of complex compounds or exchange of anions/cations between the dyes and 

the constituents of the adulterants.  The color formation occurs within 5 minutes. 

The availability of multiple strips on a single base has reduced the bulk considerably and 

also volume reduction of 100 fold for milk is achieved in comparison with MARK I test kit 

developed by DFRL. The colour spot development is observed on the strip and not in milk, 

for  all  the  tests.  MATS  can  be  used  conveniently  for  household  testing  of  milk  quality. 

Civilian  consumers  can  accept  or  reject  milk  based  on  these  simple  tests  available  on  an 

easily disposable light weight strip. This system is cheaper and specifically relevant to Indian 

scenario where the problem of adulterated or synthetic milk is highly prevalent. It is the first 

of its kind, more cost effective and convenient than the existing solutions. 

 
