GOVERNMENT OF INDIA, MINISTRY OF DEFENCE 
DEFENCE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ORGANISATION 
AERIAL DELIVERY RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT ESTABLISHMENT (ADR&DE) 
STATION ROAD, AGRA-282001 

Introduction: 

ADRDE has developed ejection seat parachute for Su-30 aircraft. This parachute is used by 

pilot during emergency for safe landing over land or water. 

Aim:  

To find suitable industrial partners for bulk production of this parachute to meet the futuristic 
requirement of IAF. DRDO will transfer the technology to industrial partner (called vendor hereafter) 
for bulk production. 

Future Scope:  

Based on the present projection, it is anticipated that there will be a requirement of qty. 350 

nos. (approx.) in next five years. However, DRDO does not guarantee the orders from the users.   

System Description: 

The ejection seat parachute assembly consists of following components: 

a) Pilot Canopy (area 60 m2) - fabricated with fabrics and various cordages (Fig-1) 
b) Harness – fabricated with webbings, tapes, and metal parts (Fig-2) 
c) Sleeve- fabricated with fabric and tapes 
d) Container- fabricated with fabric and tapes 
e) Connecting loop, pin with loop, closing loop 
f) Stabilizer parachute 

The main parachute is packed inside the headrest of ejection seat. The headrest is fired from 
the seat after completion of time delay and/or attitude depending on speed and altitude of aircraft 
flying at the time of ejection. On jettisoning of headrest, locking pins of headrest pulled out which 
allow withdrawal of main parachute from the headrest along with sleeve. Once complete lines of the 
main parachute are withdrawn from the sleeve, the canopy portion comes out from the sleeve. Finally, 
by snapping of break link headrest gets separated from canopy. The headrest with the cover and the 
canopy deployment bag secured to it separates from the parachute. Then the Pilot descents with fully 
deployed parachute on land or sea surface.  

                         Fig-1: Pilot canopy                                                                         Fig-2: Harness                                                      

1 

 
 
 
                                                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                            
PRE-QUALIFICATION CRITERIA 

1.  Only Indian company wholly owned by Indian individual are allowed to participate in 

this EOI.  

2.  Company should possess Certificate of registration as manufacturing unit, if any.  

3.  The company should have minimum annual turnover of Rs. 5 Crores for the last three 
financial years. Fundamentals of the company, like company profile, balance sheets 
and  income  tax  returns  etc.  for  last  three  years  will  be  mandatory  to  assess  the 
capability of the firm to undertake the order for subsequent bulk production. 

4.  On  receipt  of  EOIs,  the  same  will  be  scrutinised  by  a  committee  of  experts  duly 
constituted by competent authority who shall asses the suitability of the firms for this 
task. If required, the committee may visit the bidders’ premises for assessment. 

5.  Vendor has to fabricate qty.01 nos. of Pilot Parachute and harness each and supply to 

ADRDE for evaluation. Thus qualified vendor will be considered for final ToT.  

6.  DRDO at its discretion can transfer the technology to more than one vendor.  

7.  DRDO does not guarantee the orders from the users.   

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FORMAT FOR APPLICATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST 

Details to be enclosed as Annexures 

1.  Name and full address of the Organization 

2.  Management structure 

3.  Contact Person with designation 

4.  Contact telephone numbers and fax no. and email address 

5.  Current operational areas of work 

6. 

Turnover for last three years 

7.  Approval/registration with any Govt./Agency 

8.  Details of expertise available in the production of parachutes 

9.  Regular manpower available on roll 

10.  Available in house analysis facility, quality assurance/quality 

control facility 

11.  Area of work where expertise available, please elaborate 
(fabrication of parachutes and related accessories) 
12.  Similar work done for any government agency such as 

DRDO/OEF/DGOF 

13.  Any other credentials in the subject area 

14.  Acceptance of ADRDE terms and conditions 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
