NMR-Indium free Aluminium Sacrificial Anode  
(NMR-IFASA) 

Introduction  

Steel structures in immersed condition undergo corrosion due to environmental attack. 
The  protection  of  metals  from  corrosion  has  become  a  very  important  issue  from 
structural  integrity  and  economic  point  of  view.  Organic  coatings  along  with  cathodic 
protection  are  widely  used  for  corrosion  protection  of  metallic  materials  in  immersed 
condition.  In  cathodic  protection  the  steel  structure  is  made  cathode  with  respect  to 
external anode. Conventionally cathodic protection is provided with galvanic / sacrificial 
anodes.  In  galvanic  cathodic  protection  system,  the  anode  material  dissolves  and 
provides  the  necessary  current  for  protection  of  immersed  structure.  Al  alloys  having 
activating  element  are  already  used  as  sacrificial  anode  for  cathodic  protection  of 
structural steels and marine grade Al alloys. However, most of the activating elements 
such as Hg, Sn, In etc., are hazardous in nature and are either banned or will be banned. 
Thus there is a need to develop Aluminium alloy sacrificial anodes with environmental 
friendly  metals  and  having  working  potential  sufficient  enough  to  offer  protection 
against corrosion of structural steel as well as Al alloys in seawater medium.  

Technology developed at NMRL and its advantage. 

The  present  invention  relates  to  the  development  of 
sacrificial  anodes  with  high  negative  potential  and  is 
particularly  useful  for  cathodic  protection  of  structural 
steels and marine grade Al alloys in marine environment.  
In  order  to  have  desired  working  potential  with 
invention  provides 
protection  criteria,  the  present 
aluminium 
zinc, 
comprising 
anodes 
magnesium,  zirconium  and  silicon  so  as  to  provide 
efficient  and  long  cathode  protection  to  structural  steel 
and marine grade Aluminium alloys.  

sacrificial 

NMR-Indium free Aluminium 
Sacrificial Anode 

Salient Features  
Aluminium alloy anode  
The Indium free aluminiun alloy anode has the following features: 
i. Open circuit potential  
ii. Closed circuit potential  
iii. Current capacity 
The anodes are available in different shape and size, so that anodes can be selected as 
per  requirement  of  the  user.    Also  the  anodes  are  designed  to  give  maximum  current 
output. 

:  -950 to -1050 m V vs SCE  
:  -900 to -950 m V vs SCE 
:    min   2400 Ahr/Kg 

Application Areas 

•  Cathodic protection of ship underwater hull and other floating and submerged 

structures.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
