a)  Technology  of  HE  filling  and  Pyro  devices  for  PRACHAND  munitions 

underNew Family of Munitions 

b)  Integration  and  Testing  of  HE  &  Pyro  components  with  PRACHAND 

empty Deviceunder New Family of Munitions 

Description of Technology: 

  ARDE  and  HEMRL  have  developed  a  Anti-tank  influence  munition  namely 

PRACHAND.  The  hardware  was  developed  by  ARDE  with  help  of  private  industries  M/s 

AMPL,  Hyderabad.  HEMRL  developed  main  filling  for  PRACHAND  munition  by  using  a 

HMX based melt cast powerful explosive composition. The boosters are RDX and RDX/Wax 

based  charges  used  in  the  explosive  train  of  the  munition.  The  other  explosive  components 

used  in  the  explosive  train  are  Delay  Detonator,  Container  clearing  charge  and  visual 

indicator charge. The explosive technology for filling PRACHAND munition has been fully 

established. 

  The  hardware  was  further  integrated  and  tested  by  ARDE  with  explosive  items 

provided by HEMRL 

Application Areas: 

PRACHAND  is advance  version of  anti-tank  influence  munition which will  be used 

to kill enemy A type vehicles during a war.  

Its USP – such as Certifications and test results etc.: 

Hardware were developed and tested by ARDE through M/s AMPL, Hyderabad. The 

qualified  hardware  was  integrated  with  explosive  components.  The  explosive  performance 

has  been  evaluated  by  User  against  PSQR  requirements  and  trials  have  been  completed 

successfully. Explosive technology used  in the development of  munition  is  fully  established 

at  HEMRL.  All  required  ingredients  /  compositions  are  available  indigenously.  Existing 

standard  melt  cast  facilities  available  at  ordnance  production  centres  can  be  utilized  to 

prepare  and  fill  this  composition.  Similarly  technology  for  other  explosive  components  is 

fully  established.  Machinery  and  equipment  required  for  preparation  and  filling  of  the 

munition is indigenously available. 

                                         -------------------x--------------- 

 
 
 
