OPX Revilator – Handheld Device for Explosive Detection and Identification  

Objective:  

To absorb technology and production of OPX-Revilator- an Optronics Explosive Detector 

Introduction: 

Detection  and  identification  of  explosives  for  security  has  been  an  area  of  global  concern 
since decades. Concerted efforts have been focused on the detection of explosives which is a vitally 
challenging task, as the criminal use of explosives and improvised explosive devices (IEDs) by anti-
social elements for the destruction of public life and property is increasing day by day. The threat of 
IEDs  has  proliferated  to  civilian  areas  in  addition  to  military  installations.  IEDs  are  used  for  large 
scale destruction causing tragic casualties.   

High  Energy  Materials  Research  Laboratory  (HEMRL)  Pune,  a  premier  laboratory  of  the 
Defence  Research  and  Development  Organisation  (DRDO),  Ministry  of  Defence,  has  designed  and 
developed  OPX  Revilator  -  an  Optronic  trace  Explosives  Detector  for  detection  and  identification 
explosives.  This  device  has  the  capability  to  identify  more  than  22  types  of  pure  explosives  and 
explosive  mixtures  even  in  presence  of  contaminants  like  mud,  sand,  sugar, salt,  diesel  oil  etc. The 
OPX Revilator is capable of identifying a wide range of explosives in solid and liquid phase reliably. 
It can be operated in laboratory and field conditions. The OPX Revilator is a portable, miniaturized, 
electronic detector capable of identifying explosives mostly used by antisocial elements and used in 
Improvised  Explosive  Devices  (IEDs).  The  explosives  important  explosives  identified  are  CL-20, 
FOX-7, NTO, RDX, HMX, CE, PETN, TNT; inorganic compounds of class nitrates like ammonium 
nitrate  (AN)  and  combinations  thereof  ANFO,  Composition  A,  Composition  B,  Composition  C-4, 
Octol, Cyclotol, PEK-I, LTPE, Amatol, Ammonal, Pentolite, Dentex, Torpex and Tritonal. It is vitally 
useful  after  a  bomb  blast  for  identification  of  trace  explosives  from  debris.  It  is  also  useful  for 
identification of suspect, unknown samples as explosives. 

The  OPX  Revilator is  highly  useful for  Homeland  Security  and  Civil  security  operations  at 

Airports,  Railway  Stations,  Shopping  malls,  Multiplexes,  Schools,  Colleges,  Universities  and  all 

strategic locations. Agencies like Paramilitary Forces (BSF), Army, Navy, Air Force, Bomb Detection 

and Disposal Squad (BDDS), CISF and CRPF can use Revilator for trace level detection during Pre 

and Post blast analysis.  

Technical Specification of OPX-Revilator:   

Parameter 
Dimensions 
Weight 
Power Requirement 

  Values / Description 
:  185 mm (L) x 126 mm (W) x 75 mm (H) 
:  480 g (including battery) 
:  Mains Adaptor 

Rechargeable Battery 

Display 
Battery Backup 
Display of results 
Form  of  explosive  sample  for 
identification 

:  LCD screen (60 mm x 30 mm) 
:  6-8 hours 
:  Name(s) of explosive(s) displayed on LCD screen 
:  Pure or with Contaminants 

 
 
 
 
Parameter 
Classes of explosive identified 

Minimum  quantity  of  explosives 
required for identification 

State of explosive for 
identification 
Time taken for identification 
Suitability 
Adaptability 

Usefulness 

Trace Collection 
Packing List 

  Values / Description 
o  Nitramines 
: 
o  Nitro-aromatics 
o  Nitrate Esters 
o  Inorganic Nitrates 
types 

type  of  

and 

explosives 

:  Depends  on 
contaminants 
Pure Explosives : ~ 5 mg 
Explosive with mud : ~ 10 mg 
Explosive with Diesel : ~ 20 mg  
Explosives with Sand/Sugar/Wheat/Maida : ~ 10 mg 
Explosive compositions : 10 mg – 40 mg 

:  Explosive in solid and liquid state  

:   3 minutes 
:  Laboratory & Field  
:  Extendable 
explosives 
Identification  of  explosives  for  Pre  or  Post  blast 
scenario 

identification  of  more 

library 

for 

: 

:  Direct Collection / Swab 
: 

o  Reagents 
o  Trays 
o  Charger / Power cord 
o  Instruction manual 
o  Carry case 

List of explosives identifiable 

: 

o  RDX  
o  HMX- seen as RDX/HMX 
o  FOX-7 
o  CL-20 
o  ANFO (AMMONIUM NITRATE/FUEL OIL) 
o  NTO 
o  PETN 
o  TETRYL (CE) 
o  TNT 
o  AMATOL 
o  AMMONAL 

Further Detail of System: 

o  COMPOSITION A  
o  COMPOSITION B  
o  COMPOSITION C-4 
o  CYCLOTOL 
o  DENTEX  
o  LTPE (LOW TEMP PLASTIC EXPLOSIVE) 
o  OCTOL  
o  PENTOLITE 
o  PEK- I (PLASTIC EXPLOSIVE KIRKEE – I)  
o  TORPEX 
o  TRITONAL 

OPX-Revilator  is  a  micro-controller  based  embedded  system  housed  in  a  designer 
plastic cover. The essential sensors are mounted on the single motherboard. There is a LCD 
screen of required size and resolution for display of results and necessary instructions. A Li-
Ion battery is also placed inside for battery backup and charging port is provided for charging 
the battery. A USB 2.0 port is provided for external communication. The necessary codes are 
written on to the controller memory for execution of the algorithm for operation of the system 
along  with  the  data  processing.  The  trays  provided  with  the  system  are  used  to  place  the 
specimens for testing and the same are inserted in the system for obtaining the test result. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
