GLOVES ECW(MODIFIED) OUTER & INNER 

   Gloves ECW (Modified) Outer & Gloves ECW Inner was developed by 

DMSRDE,  Kanpur  to  replace  existing  Disruptive  Gloves.  Gloves  ECW 

provide  adequate  warmth  to  Jawans  posted  at  extreme  cold  weather 

(ECW)  regions  where  temperature  goes  down  upto  -20  to  -30°C.  It 

consists  of  two  components;  inner  gloves  and  outer  gloves.  Inner  and 

outer gloves may be used separately or both together as per the prevailing 

environmental  conditions.  These  were  trial  evaluated  by  user  in  three 

Outer Gloves 

different  units.  During  2005, 

these 

items  were  approved  by  MGO  vide 

letter  No.  

B/82226/4/MGO/EM/GS&C dt.03.09.05 for introduction into service.  

  Glove ECW are   being used by the soldiers for protection of hands in 

Extreme  Cold  Weather  region  against  severe  cold  and  to  prevent  the 

ingress of snow.   Gloves ECW outer are made on  principle of gloves- in 

-gloves  with  multilayered  different  insulating  textile  materials.  These 

materials  in  multilayer  structure  give  better  thermal  comfort.  Textile 

materials used in gloves outer are  - Fabric Nylon PU Coated White 250 

GSM,  Shirting  Angola  Drab,  Fabric  Pile  Knitted  White,  and  Nappa 

Inner Gloves 

Leather  Grey  Waterproof  etc.  Gloves  ECW  Inner  is  made  of  specially  developed  three  layers 

laminated  fabric.  Outer  layer  is  Polyester  knitted  fabric,  middle  layer  is  Polyurethane  foam  with 

Polyurethane adhesive film and inner layer is Polyester Pile knitted fabric.   Thermal Insulation Value 

of gloves is approx 5.0 tog, which is sufficient for the intended purpose. These Gloves are available in 

three sizes viz. Small, Medium and Large. 

Its  overall  weight  is  400  gm/  pair  (Outer  and  Inner).  Bulk  production  for  Qty  1,  50,000  pairs  of 

Gloves  ECW  Outer  and  Inner  has  been  successfully  completed  against  DGOS,  New  Delhi 
requirement vide S.O. No. A/59598/ECC&E/Gloves Leather/DGOS/OS-PII/PROC SEC/2162 Dt. 6th 

March, 2013, under AHSP of DMSRDE, Kanpur of worth Rs. 22.0 Crore (approx). Free flow bulk 

productionisation  of this item  has  been established.   The  product  is  ready  for ToT to industries  for 

mass production for the future requirements of Indian Armed Forces. 

