ToT OF OPTICAL TARGET LOCATER 600 (OTL600)

LASTEC has developed an Optical Target Locater for detection and location of commonly used
active and passive surveillance devices. It provides an important tool for detection of camouflaged
passive or active surveillance device like optical day sight or sniper telescope, Night Vision Device,
CCD   cameras   or   electronic   sensors   as   in   Laser   Range   Finder,   binoculars   during   day   and   night
operations  in urban scenarios.  The  Short Range Optical  Target Locater  (OTL300) developed  by
LASTEC has an operational range of 300m. After several interaction with users, this equipment
(OTL300) has now been upgraded to OTL600 which has several advanced features and operational
range up gradation to 600m.
OTL600 comprises of a NIR laser source with appropriate divergence control and a customized
optical   assembly   with   a   NIR   sensor   having   high   sensitivity   at   the   wavelength   of   operation.   It
operates on Li ion rechargeable batteries and is ergonomically designed as a hand held equipment
and tripod mounting capability. The optics and the system electronics  are highly customized for
contrast   limited   imaging   so   that   the   detected   target   appears   as   a   bright   pulsating   spot   on   the
background scene on a micro display screen that can be viewed through the monocular
 OTL 600 finds application with military and Para military forces. It can be used for active scanning
and monitoring of specific areas, VIP security and detection of pointed optics viz., snipers and area
sanitization. 
The   equipment   has   been   extensively   demonstrated   to   several   potential   users.   Various   agencies
responsible for homeland security have shown keen interest in this device. OTL600 has undergone
extensive   user   evaluation   with   Indian   Army,   and   paramilitary   forces   and   is   short   listed   for
procurement. 
Although a few commercial systems are available internationally for detection of optical devices but
following salient features of the developed device make it unique for the mentioned application:

Improved image quality

1.
2. Laser ’On’ at user’s discretion for saving power 
3. Coloured target marking  and clutter rejection modes

for confirmation of target detection
4. Audio buzzer on target confirmation.
5.

In built cartridge  type field replaceable  battery    for
powering the device

6. Capability   of   live   video   streaming   at   a   remote

location

7. Video recording feature.
8. Mostly maintenance free operation
9. Networking and remote operation capability 

Photograph of developed OTL600

