Small Animal Irradiation Platform

Development of radiation countermeasure agent requires screening of several molecules on
small animals. The irradiation geometry and ability to handle multiple animals is important
and   no   ready-made   solutions   are   available.   In   most   of   the   laboratories,   makeshift
arrangements without much description are published as research papers. Such geometry and
irradiated dose cannot be replicated in other laboratories and therefore true comparison of
lead findings is difficult. Further, irradiation of multiple animals is necessary to reduce time
and variability during experimentation. Development of laboratory animal models mimicking
the actual field conditions is a challenge. Delivering radiation to specific region or organs
that can benefit the understanding of radio-biological effects in human is extremely difficult
and   a   major   challenge   in   countermeasure   development.   Though,   high   precision   targeted
irradiation platforms for single animal are available, they may not be sufficient for screening
of potential countermeasures on large group of small animals in reproducible manner among
multiple facilities or institutions. 

      About the technology

Small   Animal   Irradiation   Platform   has   been   designed   and   developed   by   INMAS   for
performing   localized,   partial   body,   multi-organ   (head,   thoracic,   hind   limbs   and   whole
abdomen),   and   whole   body  irradiations  to   small   animals   (mice,   rats   and   rabbit)   against
gamma radiation (Co60  Tele radiotherapy). This can also be used for other gamma energy
source such as  137Cs and  X-ray irradiators. The shielding designs are optimized to provide
proper protection to organs at risk (95% shielding) from high energy gamma radiation. The
platform   is   provided   with   manual   vertical   movement   for   easy   setups.   A   dosimeter   for
radiation dose estimation is also provided. The animal irradiation using this platform can be
continuously monitored using CCTV device. 

This platform will therefore allow simultaneous localized irradiation of mice or rats or

rabbit and efficacy assessment of therapeutic radiation countermeasures agents.

