Enhanced blast polymer bonded explosive (EB-PBX) 

Development of weapon systems that use blast as the primary damage mechanism has 
been in the forefront for use in non-traditional targets like deep buried bunkers, fortified 
structure  and  caves.  Worldwide  lot  of  developmental  activities  are  being  pursued  to 
enhance the blast performance. 

Traditional  high  explosives,  on  detonation,  produce  very  high  but  short  duration 
pressure pulse. However, for structural targets in open or fortified, there is requirement 
of  a  pressure  pulse  with  moderate  peek  but  long  lasting  wave.  The  TNT  based 
compositions  such  as  Dentex,  Torpex,  HBX-1  and  HBX-3  are  widely  used  for  this 
purpose.  TNT  has  inherent  limitations  due  to  its  low  thermal  stability,  inhomogeneity, 
low density and exudation. 

To  encounter  these  limitations,  TBRL  has  developed  Enhanced  blast  polymer  bonded 
explosive (EB-PBX) to meet the requirements of various warheads like blast warheads, 
fragmented  warheads,  enhanced  blast  warheads  etc.  for  defeating  bunkers,  fortified 
structures etc. 

 This  is  HMX  based  aluminized  composition.  The  ingredients  with  their  percentage, 
particle shapes, particle sizes have been optimized to meet the characteristics like high 
density,  high  shock  insensitivity,  VOD,  TNT  equivalence.  Besides this the  composition 
has  been  evaluated  for  various  safety  tests  at  powder  as  well  as  charge  level.  The 
safety certification has also been provided by CQAME (Pune). 

The  EB-PBX  based  charges  have  been  processed  using  planetary  mixer  and  curing 
chambers. The charges at various calibers have been developed and subjected to blast, 
detonic trials displaying achievement of successful results. 

Various  warheads  of  various  calibers  have  been  filled  with  this  composition  and 
subjected  to  blast  and  fragmentation  trials  leading  to  achievement  of  successful  blast 
parameters like Peak over Pressure, positive phase duration, fireball diameter etc. 

The  technology  for  processing  of  EP-PBX  formulation  is  ready  for  ToT  to  industry 
partners.   

 
 
 
 
 
 
