Post Impact Delay Fuze for Air Delivered Bomb 

TBRL  has  designed  and  developed  a  state  of  the  art  electronic  post  impact 
delay  fuze  for  air  delivered  bomb.  This  fuze  can  find  applications  in  concrete 
penetration  bombs  used  for  defeating  hard  and  buried  structures.  EBW  detonator 
based inline explosive train is incorporated in the fuze to enhance the safety during 
storage, transportation and usage. Use of no primary explosives in the fuze does not 
require complex moving/rotating Safety & Arming mechanisms. The developed fuze 
is compatible with the fuze well of existing bombs available with the Indian Air force. 
The developed fuze has the following salient features; 

1. Instantaneous functioning on impact 
2. Short delay  
Rear mountable fuze for 2” fuze well 

1.  Operational 
features 
2.  Compatibility 
3.  Programmability  Manual knobs and RS-422 interface  for setting mission 
parameters such as arming delay and post impact delay 
Lanyard switch and Turbo generator 
Modular, fail safe design 

4.  Safeties 
5.  Other features 

It 

to 

into 

is  a  combination  of 
mechanical  and  electrical  sub 
systems 
for  providing  adequate 
the  bomb  during  all 
safety 
phases  of  its  life.  The  fuze  is 
divided 
subsystems 
two 
namely  Release  sensing  and 
arming  system  (RSAS)  and  fuzing 
system. RSAS is directly interfaced 
with the aircraft and is designed to 
provide  safety  to  the  fuze  during 
handling  and  arm  the  fuze  after 
verifying  the  release  parameters.  But  the  fuzing  system  is  responsible  for  initiating 
the explosive train at a set delay after the impact/penetration. The fuzing section of 
the fuze is hardened to withstand high 'g' loads during impact and penetration of the 
target. The developed fuzing section has been subjected actual concrete penetration 
trials and functioned successfully. The ToT partner is expected to produce required 
number of fuzes and get involved with the design team during RCMA clearance and 
flight trials/ user evaluation trials.  

EBW detonator will be provided by TBRL at the prevailing cost at that time as 

the same is not part of development and is a restricted technology.  

 
 
 
