Jaguar Personal Equipment Connector PEC (Man Portion) 

INTRODUCTION 

In  Jaguar  aircraft,  gaseous  oxygen  is  delivered  to  the  aircrew  on  demand  through  each  crew  member’s 
mask.  This  oxygen  supply  in  normal  conditions  is  from  the  main  oxygen  converter  system  of  aircraft.  In 
emergency  conditions,  gaseous  oxygen  is  supplied  from  a  seat  mounted  emergency  oxygen  cylinder, 
operation of which is initiated by a manual control or automatically during ejection. Anti ‘G’ suit supply is 
from the main oxygen supply only.  

Personal Equipment Connector (PEC) Assembly  

The  Personal  Equipment  Connector  (PEC)  Assembly,  fitted  on  the  port  side  of  the  ejection  seat  pan, 
enables  the  main  oxygen,  emergency  oxygen,  communication  services  and  the  anti  ‘G’  suit  supply  to  be 
connected or disconnected in one action. The assembly comprises of PEC Aircraft Portion, PEC Seat Portion 
and PEC Man Portion– which is a part of flying clothing of the aircrew and is connected to the top surface 
of the seat portion when the aircrew straps in. 

Figure 1. Jaguar PEC (Man Portion) 

The man portion of the PEC (Figure 1) is part of the aircrew flying equipment and is only connected before 
flight. The man portion has an operating handle fitted to the rear. Below the handle, fitted to the body, is a 
roller  to  reduce  friction  during  pull-off.  The  handle  is  fitted  with  a  lanyard,  the  free  end  of  which  is 
attached  to  the  flying  clothing  of  the  aircrew.  During  pilot-seat  separation  in  an  ejection  sequence,  the 
lanyard gets pulled thus releasing the man portion from the seat portion. The front of the PEC man portion 
is  tapered  to  allow  correct  fitment  under  the  top  clamp  plate  of  the  seat  portion  and  the  locating  pin 
positioned at the front engages in the corresponding slot in the seat potion. 

 Function of Jaguar PEC (Man Portion) 

The Jaguar PEC (Man Portion), fitted on the port side of the ejection seat pan, enables the main oxygen, 
emergency oxygen, communication services and the anti ‘G’ suit supply to be connected or disconnected in 
one action during routine usage and in emergency. 

           
 
 
 
