Corrosion Inhibitor for Corrosion Control of Ship Bilge 

       Corrosion of ship bilge is a serious problem faced by Indian Navy which reduces 
ship’s  service  life.  Seawater  mixed  with  oily  wastes  and  waste  oils  fills  ship  bilges  in 
Indian Naval ships which corrodes bilge and other piping materials. To avoid ship bilge 
corrosion,  organic  protective  coating  is  applied  at  the  time  of  fabrication  and  during 
refittment of  ship.    However, this coating  is damaged  by  the  physical,  mechanical  and 
other  welding  works.  Due  to  difficulty  in  reaching  the  bilge  area,  it  is  not  possible  to 
recoat  the  bilges.  Also  use  of  sacrificial  anode  to  control  corrosion  of  bilge  is  not 
feasible,  due  to  wet  and  dry  conditions  and  coating  of  oils  over  sacrificial  anodes. 
Corrosion inhibitors can minimize the corrosion of bilges and other materials placed in 
bilge area.  

NMRL, Ambernath has developed the corrosion inhibitor for controlling corrosion 
of  ship  bilge  material  from  bilge  water,  containing  mainly  seawater,  oils  and  other 
contaminants.  This  inhibitor  system  can  fully  protect  steels  based  structural  materials 
against corrosion. The inhibitor system can function as corrosion inhibitor with inhibition 
efficiency more than 95 % for at least 20 days duration.  This inhibitor system is highly 
soluble in seawater without requirement of any extra medium. It can be used as pellet, 
powder and liquid form so that this inhibitor system can be selected as per requirement 
of the user.   

This  inhibitor  system  can  fully  protect  mild  steel,  carbon  steel  and  low  alloy  steels 
based  materials  against  corrosion  and  partially  protect  aluminium  alloys,  stainless 
steels and copper alloys.  

Infrastructure  requirement  includes  Mixing  and  grinding  machine,  Pellet  making 
machine,  chemical  analysis  facility  for  quality  control  of  raw  materials  and  finished 
product. 

Market potential and potential users  

The potential users of this technology are Indian Navy, Coast guard and any other 
structures where stagnant seawater is in closed environment. 

 
 
 
