Expression of Interest 
Transfer of Technology (ToT) of  
MAAREECH - ADVANCED TORPEDO DEFENCE SYSTEM  
(Maareech-ATDS) 

1.  Introduction 

NPOL,  Kochi,  a  premier  laboratory  under  Defence  R&D  Organisation  invites  Expression  of 
Interest  (EOI)  from  Indian  manufacturers  having  sufficient  experience,  expertise  and 
willingness  to  undertake  the  role  of  Lead  System  Integrator  (LSI)  of  Maareech  Advanced 
Torpedo  Defence  System  (Maareech-ATDS)  for  Naval  Platforms.  The  MAAREECH  system  is 
used to detect, classify and offer countermeasures against an impending torpedo attack on 
the ship equipped with Maareech.  Maareech system consists of mainly four subsystems i.e. 
Wet end system, Winch System, On-board Electronics and System Software.  

Winch System 

On-board Electronics 

Tow Cable 

Towed Array with 
integrated Towed Decoy 

Fig.1. Scheme of MAAREECH Advanced Torpedo Defence System 

The Wet End System consists of different modules of sonar arrays such as the main array for 
detection,  L/R  ambiguity  resolution  array,  Towed  decoy  module,  fiber  optic  conversion 
module, tow cable and tail rope for inducing drag. The tow cable gets attached to the Winch 
system which is used for Deployment, Retrieval and Stowage of the wet end. It has multiple 
modes  of  operation,  various  safety  interlocks  and  remote  operation  capability.  Data  is 
received  at  Onboard  electronics  by  fibre  optic  telemetry  from  Array  to  winch,  and  by 
electrical  telemetry  from  winch  onwards.  The  on-board  electronics  comprise  of  specific 
hardware  modules  for  signal  processing  and  display,  data  recording  and  data  sharing  with 

 
 
 
 
fire  control  system.  The  system  uses  Hull  Mounted  Sonar  sensor  data  also  for  torpedo 
detection.  The  system  software  which  resides  on  the  on-board  hardware  modules 
implements advanced signal processing algorithms for torpedo detection, classification and 
decoying of torpedoes.  Technical Specifications are enclosed at Annexure ‘A’ 

2. Responsibilities of System Integrator 

MAAREECH  ATDS  is  a  multidisciplinary  sonar  system  which  demands  implementation  of 
technologies  in  various  domains  such  as  transducers,  mechanical  engineering,  ocean 
engineering,  electrical  and  electronics  engineering,  power  electronics  and  software.  The 
purpose  of  this  EOI  is  to  identify  potential  Lead  System  Integrators  (LSI)  for  MAAREECH 
ATDS. The scope of TOT, after completing all official formalities, will be restricted to system 
level configuration, integration and specifications, interface controls, supply chain and Bill of 
Materials,  Acceptance  Test  procedure  for  subsystems  and  components,  software  and 
hardware  integration  procedures,  binding  data  for  installation,  performance  validation 
criteria and system maintenance tips.  Responsibilities of Lead System Integrator are further 
elaborated in the succeeding sections. 

2.1  Act as a single point contact between the Indian Navy/NPOL 

a.  The  sub-systems  of  MAAREECH  ATDS  has  been  developed  through  specialised 
Industries through a consortium mode of development approach. The selected LSI 
should maintain the existing supply chain for all major subsystems as per NPOL’s 
recommendations. 

b.  Detailed  Specifications,  Quality  policy  /  program  for  component  level  to  system 
level, ATP, FAT’s, HAT’s and SAT’s documents and BOM will be provided in the TOT 
documents. 

c.  The LSI will field MAAREECH ATDS against RFP from Indian Navy/other sources by 

submitting Technical, commercial and price bids appropriately. 

d.  Once  a  Supply  order  is  placed  on  the  Lead  System  Integrator  (LSI),  the  LSI  will 
execute the order within the stipulated time frame and budget by liaising with the 
sub-system  manufacturers  for  realising  the  hardware,  strictly  adhering  to  the 
supply  chain  given  in  the  TOT  documents,  and  by  integrating  software  as  per 
procedure. 

2.2  Organising QT/ET/ATP at the premises of sub-system manufacturer 

a.  System  Integrator  has  to  organise  QT/ET  at  the  manufacturers  end  as  per  sub-

system acceptance document provided in the TOT document.  

 
 
b.  System  Integrator  has  to  conduct  FAT’s  at  the  manufacturers  end  as  per  sub-
system  Factory  acceptance  document  provided  in  the  TOT  document  before 
despatch of sub-system for system Integration 

c.  System integrator will ensure the presence of competent authority responsible for 

Quality assurance during all inspection stages. 

2.3  System Integration at own factory before despatch to the destination 

a.  Before  despatch  to  destination  Onboard  electronics  and  wet  end  subsystems  of 
MAAREECH  ATDS  have  to  be  Integrated  and  evaluated  as  per  FAT’s  document 
issued  along  with  TOT  Document  at  the  own  factory  premises  of  System 
Integrator.  

b.  All  facilities  essential  for  conduct  of  System  Integration  will  be  organised  by  the 

system Integrator.  

c.  System integrator will ensure the presence of competent authority responsible for 

Quality assurance and inspection. 

2.4 

Installation On-board designated Platforms 

a.  System  integrator  will  carry  out  the  installation  of  MAAREECH  ATDS  on-board 
Naval  Ship  identified  by  Navy/NPOL.  System  integrator  will  be  responsible  for 
survey of the Ship and association with board of officers nominated for the Siting 
board for installation of MAAREECH ATDS 

b.  System  integrator  will  prepare  all  necessary  installation  drawing  specific  to  the 

designated Naval Ship.  

c.  System  integrator  will  transport  all  the  sub-system  to  the  harbour  identified  for 

the installation of MAAREECH ATDS. 

d.  System  integrator  will  ship-in  all  the  necessary  sub-systems  and  carry  out  the 

installation and Integration on-board the designated Naval Ship.  

e.  System  integrator  is  responsible  for  Laying  of  power  cables,  junction  boxes  and 
control panels  required  for  system  integration.  System  integrator  has  to  procure 
all the necessary accessories for the same. 

f.  System integrator is responsible for Air-conditioning, lighting and ventilation at the 
area  where  subsystems  of  MAAREECH  ATDS  are  installed.    Air  conditioning 
includes cooling of cabinets for On-board electronics.  

g.  System  integrator  is  responsible  for  Providing  False  roof,  Wall  panelling  and 

flooring at the area of installation as per Ship standard. 

h.  System integrator is responsible for Plumbing works to make available fresh water 

and sea water necessary for system operation 

 
 
i.  System  integrator  will  carry  out  the  installation  as  per  procedure,  safety  norms 

and security norms of ship. 

j.  System integrator will ensure the presence of competent authority responsible for 
Quality  assurance  throughout  the  installation  procedure  and  will  be  responsible 
for completing installation inspection by the competent authority. 

2.5  Conduct HATs and SATs 

a.  System integrator will organise the conduct of HATs and SATs post-installation as 

per Documents provided during TOT.  

b.  System integrator will ensure the presence of competent authority responsible for 

HATs and SATs. 

2.6  Post Installation support like routine and preventive maintenance, AMC etc. 

a.  System  integrator  will  carry  out  Post  Installation  support  like  routine  and 
preventive  maintenance,  AMC  etc.  of  the  MAAREECH  ATDS  on  the  platform  in 
which the MAAREECH ATDS is installed.  

b.  The  responsibility  of  the  entire  “Product  Life  Cycle  Support”  lies  with  the  Lead 

System Integrator. 

3.  TOT TERMS 

1.  As per DRDO Guidelines for Transfer of Technology (TOT), the first TOT will normally 
be  given to the  industry  associated during  development  on  priority  so  as  to  ensure 
high quality of manufacture within the limitations in hand-holding support of DRDO. 

2.  As more than one industry was involved in the realisation of the various sub-systems 
during the development of MAAREECH ATDS, the supply chain established by NPOL 
should  not  be  disturbed  by  the  industry  that  is  nominated  as  the  lead  system 
Integrator.  

3.  TOT will be given on non-exclusive basis only. The number of license on non-exclusive 
basis will be restricted. However, additional licence if required will be given by DRDO 
on need basis. The intellectual property rights shall always remain with DRDO.   

4.  The amount and payment stages of TOT fee will be as prescribed by DRDO.  

5.  Royalty fee @ 2% of the annual sales to Indian Govt. Estt, Armed Forces and @ 6% of 

the annual sales to Export Market. 

 
 
 
 
 
6.  Technical  assessment  of  the  industries  submitting  EOI’s  will  be  carried  out  by  a 
Technical  assessment  committee  for  verification  of  the  technical  and  financial 
capability/capacity of the industry. 

7.  Eligible parties will have to sign Confidentiality & Non-Disclosure Agreement (CNDA) 
with DRDO for technical discussion including specifications, following which they shall 
be considered for giving Transfer of Technology (TOT) on non-exclusive basis. 

8.  TOT to industry will be given based on their manufacturing capability, assurance on 

quality and capacity of production apart from other terms and conditions.  

9.  The licencing agreement for transfer of technology (LATOT) which is to be signed will 
be as per the template approved by Department of Legal affairs. Ministry of Law and 
Justice. 

10. DRDO shall have the march-in rights to use the IP for its own use in the interest of the 
Govt. of India without any restrictions, irrespective of the nature of licence granted. 

11. The  firm  expressing  interest  should  be  technically  sound  to  Procure/manufacture, 
supply,  install,  Integrate  and  maintain  the  system  with  requisite  quality  standards. 
Domain  knowledge  in  installation,  integration  and  maintenance  of  deployable 
underwater systems onboard naval ships is considered to be essential for satisfactory 
completion of system commissioning and sea trials.  

4.  EOI TERMS 

Interested  Industries  may    write  along  with  their  company  profile,  financial  &  technical 
capabilities etc. as per the following format   to Director, NPOL, Kochi and copy to Director 
DIITM on the following addresses  within 45 days of this advertisement. 

Director, NPOL 
DRDO, Min. of Defence,  
Thrikkakara P.O. 
Kochi-682021 
Contact No - 0484 2424878 
FAX : 0484-2424858 
Email: director@npol.drdo.in 

Director, DIITM  
Room No 446 DRDO Bhawan 
DRDO HQrs Ministry of Defence  
Rajaji Marg New Delhi – 110011  
Contact No - (011) 23016216 / 23007446 

FAX No. 011-23793008 

a)  Memorandum  and  Articles  of  Association  (Should  be  incorporated  as  per  Indian 

Companies Act, 1956)  

b)  Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.  

c)  Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.  

d)  Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period  

 
 
e)  Details of shareholding/ownership pattern especially foreign partners/ shareholders, 
foreign employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt. 
of India policies and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI).  

f)  Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  

g)  Numbers and details of IPR or patents etc. held by the company.  

h)  Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel.  

i)  Record of past performance (e.g. Supply orders executed against Ministry of Defence 

orders, public sectors and paramilitary forces, if any.  

j)  Availability  of  adequate  infrastructure  (List  of  machines  and  their  production 

capacities) and technical expertise.  

k)  List of Testing and Support equipment. 

l) 

ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification  

m)  Relevant clearances from the authorities/ ministries (if any) 

n)  Capacity  and  capability  to  undertake  developmental  work  and  to  accept  attendant 

financial and commercial risks.  

o)  Capacity/Capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales and 

service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 

 
 
 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION 

Annexure ‘A’ 

MAAREECH - ADVANCED TORPEDO DEFENSE SYSTEM (Maareech-ATDS) 

1. 

Introduction 

“Maareech” is an Advanced Torpedo Defence System (ATDS) for surface ships. Maareech ATDS is 
capable of providing reliable defence mechanism against a possible torpedo attack by vintage as well 
as modern torpedoes. Maareech system has both torpedo detection and countermeasure capability. 
Core functions include automatic detection, tracking and alert of incoming torpedoes and decoying 
of acoustic homing torpedoes.  

2.  System Configuration 

The MAAREECH system is used to detect, classify and offer countermeasures against an impending 
torpedo attack on the ship equipped with Maareech. The system consists of a linear towed receiver 
array with appropriate length for the detection of torpedo signatures, towed decoy module for 
decoying of torpedoes, tow cable, a hydraulically operated winch system for handling the array and 
tow cable, Hull mounted Array sensor data interface and on-board electronics and system Software 
for signal processing, display & recording of sonar information (Fig. 1). Brief of each of these 
subsystems is given in the following sections. 

Fig. 1. Schematic  diagram of MAAREECH Advanced Torpedo Defence System 

2.1  Towed Array 
This is a system which comprise of various modules arranged in a linear manner interconnected by 
underwater connectors. Each module has components housed inside a polyurethane hose. Typically 
a module has an array of hydrophones spaced as per frequency range, capable of detection, L/R 
ambiguity resolution, decoying by Towed Decoy and Fibre Optic conversion module for telemetry.  

2.2 Tow Cable  
Tow Cables are electro-optic-mechanical cables having electrical lines, Fiber optic lines, strength 
members and steel armour. Tow Cable is the life line of Towed Array Sonar, which connects the 
linear array which is towed behind the ship with the onboard electronics, through the winch system 
interfaces The tow cable execute the roles of transferring the operational tow load (drag force) to 
the winch, transferring power supply to the arrays and providing a data telemetry link and control 
the depth of operation of the array. Typical length of tow cable is 500m 

2.3 Winch System 
The sonar winch is used for winding, unwinding and stowage of the array and cables. The winch is 
primarily hydraulically operated, and can be operated in electric mode in emergency (Fig. 2). A winch 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
control console located adjacent is used to control and monitor the operations of the winch. The 
system is embedded with various interlocks and safety features which facilitates even remote 
operation from sonar room. 

Fig.2. Cable and Array wound on Winch 

Fig. 3. Display Cum Processor Cabinet 

2.4  Onboard Electronics (OBE) 
This subsystem receives the data through a fibre optic data link from the array. The OBE executes all 
the processing on the data received and presents the sonar information in twin displays using state 
of art HMI schemes. Display cum processor cabinet houses processing electronics and displays. (Fig. 
3). The displays have multiple pages that can be changed by the operator as required. The OBE also 
provides interfaces with existing Hull Mounted Array. The Digital Data Recorders (DDR) can be used 
to record sonar data, replay pre-recorded data and even plug in test data to the OBE for evaluation 
and training. 
The data from the OBE is interfaced with Fire Control System to facilitate seamless triggering of 
expendable Counter measures. The Contact Motion Algorithm is used to predict the motion of 
incoming Torpedo.    

3. MAAREECH ATDS Subsystem Parameters 
Details of major subsystems of Maareech are given below 

3.1   Wet-end subsystem  
Maareech wet end subsystem comprise of the following  

a)  Towed Receiver Array  
b)  Towed Left Right Ambiguity Array 
c)  Towed Decoy Module 
d)  Fibre Optic (Conversion) Module (FOM) 
e)  Tail Rope  
f)  Electro - mechanical Connectors 
g)  Tow Cable integrated with FOM. 

The Towed Array modules have typical diameter of 78mm and cumulative length of approximately 
40m. The various elements are housed inside a flexible PU hose and is filled with a fluid. The modules 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
are interconnected using electro mechanical connectors. The Tow cable is terminated to FOM at the 
towed array end and Winch Rotor box at the winch end. 

3.2   Winch subsystem  
Maareech winch subsystem comprise of the following 

a)  Hydraulic Winch with secondary Electric drive 
b)  Hydraulic Power Pack 
c)  Control Valve Desk 
d)  Winch Master Control 
e)  Opto-Electrical Conversion Module 
f)  Electrical Slip ring 
g)  Load Sensing Unit 
h)  Fair Lead Assembly 
i)  Winch Remote Control 

The system is designed for stowage of 500m tow cable and Towed Array. The Winch system can 
withstand up to 8000 kgf line pull. Maximum speed is 18 rpm. The system has various safety 
interlocks for preventing unintended operations. The Spooler system has auto and manual modes, 
has adjustable arrangements for passage of tow cable and towed array, and can be engaged/ 
disengaged easily. The system supports remote operation from Sonar Room. 

3.3    Onboard Electronics sub system  
Maareech Onboard electronics subsystem consists of the following 
a)  Display cum Processor cabinet (DcP) 
b)  Power Supply Cabinet 
c)  Hull Mounted Array (HMA) Interface Cabinet 
d)  Digital Data Recorder (DDR) 
e) 
Isolation Transformer (IT) 
f)  Automatic Change Over Switch (ACOS) 
g)  Various Junction Boxes 

The Display cum processor cabinet houses complete processing electronics of Maareech. Data is 
presented onto twin displays. Keyboard and Trackball interfaces are provided. Power supply is 
adapted for ship supply through Automatic Change over Switch and Isolation Transformer. The 
power supply and signals are distributed through various junction boxes fitted at different locations 
of the platform. HMA interface cabinet extracts pre amplified sensor data and converts it into 
Ethernet format for further processing at DcP. Ethernet links are used for Data and Control 
telemetry. 

3.4  Software 
The System software which resides on the on-board hardware modules implements advanced signal 
processing algorithms for torpedo detection classification and counter measures in active and 
passive mode.  Exclusive rights for software will remain with NPOL. 

 
 
 
 
 
