Boot Anti Mine Infantry 

Boot  Anti  Mine  Infantry  (BAMI)  for  assault  operation  has  been  designed  as  an 
effective foot protection system against anti-personnel mine blasts. It is lighter in weight, 
hence  provide  fatigue  free  walk.  It  also  protects  user’s  foot  from  hot  and  cold  climate 
because  the  chrome  tanned  leather  has  the  capacity  to  retain  heat  in  winter  and 
dissipate  moisture  and  heat  in  summer.  When  an  anti-personnel  mine  (35  gram  High 
Explosive)  blasts,  the  peak  pressure  generated  about  45000  kg/cm2.  If  this amount  of 
pressure impinged directly to the human heel the leg bones will be pulverized. Boot Anti 
Mine Infantry attenuate the blast over pressure to a value below 100 kg/cm2 which will 
be  transmitted  to  heel  of  the  user,  which  is  a  safe  pressure.    These  Boot  Anti  Mine 
Infantry has  been  tested  against  the  blast  of  35  gram  CE  (composite  explosive)  pellet 
with  a  weight  approximating  to  human  weight  and  average  transmitted  peak  over 
pressure from these boot is below 100 kg/cm2.  

This BAMI has chrome tanned leather upper which protect the foot from climatic 
condition  and  debris  of  anti-personnel  mine  blast.  The  sole  of  the  Boot  Anti  Mine 
Infantry has two types of configuration for heel (rear) side and ball (front) side. Ball side 
configuration has FRP deflectors. A fraction of the total blast energy delivered to these 
FRP deflectors in the form of kinetic energy will be dissipated in plastic deformation of 
these  FRP  deflectors,  delamination  and  some  fraction  will  be  deflected  towards  the 
ground. Ceramic honeycomb material of different shapes according to the shape of FRP 
deflectors  has  been  embedded  between  these  FRP  deflectors  as  a  shock  absorbing 
material.  A  considerable  amount  of  energy  absorbed  in  crushing/pulverizing  of  the 
ceramic honeycomb material inserts. Hence, a very small fraction of energy generated 
during the anti-personnel mine blast will transmit to the user’s foot.   

Ball  (rear)  side  configuration  has  ceramic  honeycomb  material  and  woolen  felt. 
This felt is lighter in weight and comfortable. Both the configuration of heel side and ball 
side has been embedded into the Polyurethane sole. This polyurethane sole is flexible 
and wear resistant.  

 
