Driver Night Sight 

Introduction: Driver Night Sight (DNS) for T-90 tank has been developed to enable driving of tanks 

in night without switching on headlights. It comprises of an advanced uncooled TI & a day camera  

in  form-fit  configuration  without  armour  cutting.    The  electronic  image  fusion  provides  DNS  the 

capability to see beacon lights and thermal image simultaneously during night.  

Specifications 

Features 

•  Uncooled IR Detector : 640 x 480 format/17µm Pitch 
•  Day Camera 
•  FOV 
•  Rec. Range 
•  Display 
•  Power 
•  Environmental             :  JSS 5855 / JSS-55555 

           : 1280 x 1024format/9.7µm pitch 
           : 45° x 34° 
           : 150m for tank size target 
           : Binocular OLED & LCD 
           : Tank power ( 24 VDC nominal) 

•  Form-fit configuration for existing Driver Sight for T-90 tank 
•  Selectable TI or Day or Fused( TI + Day) image  
•  Wide FOV coverage 
•  Ability to see beacon lights and thermal image simultaneously 
• 
•  Day light camera with low Light level imaging capability  
•  Day and Night operation 

Imaging in the presence of dust and smoke 

Technology Involved:  Development of DNS involved development of following technologies 

•  Development of  uncooled TI  and Day camera  in periscopic mode  
•  Development of IR/Visible/Eyepiece Optics module 
•  Development of a miniaturized fusion board for electronic image fusion of TI and Day camera images 
•  Development of Interface board and power supply board catering for power of various modules, 

BITE and serial link/USB interfaces with different modules 

•  Development of Binocular OLED Eyepiece to provide unit magnification image 
•  Development of form-fit mechanical casing of DNS for Defogging, sealing and EMI/EMC 

All the above technologies were successfully developed at IRDE(DRDO), Dehradun.  

Interested Industry may write to Director, IRDE, Dehradun at the following address: 

1.  Director, IRDE  
     DRDO, Min of Defence   
     Raipur PO 
     Dehradun-248008 
     Fax: 0135-2787161/2787128 

3. Mr Vipin Sharma, Joint Director (Technology) 
     Phone: 0135-2782451 

2. Director, DITM, DRDO HQ. 
    Min of Defence, DRDO Bhawan, 
    Room No. 447, B Block 
    Rajaji Marg, New, Delhi-110011 
    Fax: 011-23793008 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Format for Seeking Expression of Interest (EOI) 

(a)  Memorandum  and  Articles  of  Association  (Should  be  incorporated  as  per 

Indian Companies Act, 1956)  

(b)  Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.  

(c)  Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.  

(d)  Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period  

(e)  Details  of  shareholding/ownership  pattern  especially 

foreign  partners/ 

shareholders, foreign employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to 

the  prevailing  Govt  of  India  policies  and  regulations  on  Foreign  Direct 

Investment (FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable.  

(f)   Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  

(g)  Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company.  

(h)  Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel.  

(i)  Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry 

of Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).  

(j)  Availability  of  adequate  infrastructure  (List  of  machines  and  their  production 

capacities) and technical expertise.  

(k) List of Testing and Support equipments  

(l)  ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification  

(m) Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any)  

(n)Capacity  and  capability  to  undertake  developmental  work  and  to  accept 

attendant financial and commercial risks.  

(o) Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales  

and service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality.  

 
 
