1,3,5-Triamino-2,4,6-Trinitrobenzene (TATB) 

1,3,5-triamino-2,4,6-trinitrobenzene  (TATB)  is  a  thermally  stable  high  explosive 

material  with  reasonable  shock  insensitivity  and  is  a  potential  candidate  for  active  armour 

and  advanced  warheads.  The 

technology 

for  production  of  1,3,5-triamino-2,4,6-

trinitrobenzene  (TATB)  in  pilot  plant  scale  has  been  developed  at  HEMRL  following 

persistent R&D efforts.  

The  process  for  preparing  TATB  consists  of  two  steps.  The  first  step  involves  a 

consecutive nitration reaction of trichlorobenzene (TCB) to trichlorotrinitrobenzene (TCTNB) 

under strong nitrating condition using mixed acid at elevated temperature. This reaction step 

is  highly  hazardous  and  highly  prone  for  transition  to  runway  condition  hence  requires 

precise  control  over  reaction  parameters.  The  intermediate  compound,  TCTNB  is  then 

aminated to TATB in the second step using ammonia gas (NH3) under pressurized condition. 

The  crude  product  is  digested  under  hot  water  to  remove  soluble  impurities.  The  process 

developed  includes  other  unit  operations  like  filtration,  washing  and  drying  of  the 

intermediate  and  finished  products.  The  product  characteristics  are  highly  dependent  on 

reaction parameters such as temperature, agitation, ammonia feeding rate, drying condition 

etc. The yield of TATB is realized to be ~85%. The effluent generated during production of 

the intermediate compound is strongly acidic and requires prior treatment before discharging 

to the ground. Further, the effluent generated from amination reaction is rich in solvent which 

is recovered through distillation and can be re-used, if purity is maintained. 

The pilot plant scale process for TATB has been developed ab-initio and no process 

details are available in the literature. The properties of TATB developed in this process are 

at par with the reported values in the literature. 

Figure: TATB Reaction Scheme 

ClClClClNO2ClNO2ClO2NO2NNH2NO2NH2NO2H2NNitrationAminationMixed AcidAmmoniaTCBTCTNBTATB 
 
 
 
 
 
 
