Process for Preparation of DBX-1 

Primary  explosives  are  sensitive  explosive  materials  that  are  used  as  initiators  (e.g.  in 
detonators,  primers,  blasting  caps,  etc.)  in  relatively  small  quantities  to  initiate  a  secondary  or 
main explosive charge. Many primary explosives in current use contain lead with the most well-
known  example  being  lead  azide  &  lead  styphnate  (LA  &  LS).  LA/LS  contain  lead,  a  toxic 
heavy metal that is released to the environment during production and use. Environmental health 
and safety regulations on lead containing materials are quite extensive and are likely to increase 
in severity in the future, along with compliance costs. Therefore, lead-free alternates to LA& LS 
have been sought for many years. 

In search of  eco-friendly, safe and storage-stable lead-free initiators, DBX-1 (Copper(I) 5-
nitrotetrazoalte)  has  been  emerged  as  potential  replacement  to  bothLA/LS  for  initiators 
applications.  DBX-1  is  an  environmentally  benign  copper-based  primary  explosive  which  has 
initiation characteristic similar to LA and sensitivity equivalent to LS.  Unlike LA, DBX-1 does 
not  decompose in  non-hermetic  systems  and  is  therefore  appropriate  in  the  presence  of  copper 
components. DBX-1 has higher level of compatibility with a variety of secondary explosives and 
other  potential  ordnance  materials  compared  to  LA.  DBX-1  is  being  studied  extensively  in 
variety  of  ordnance  applications  in  world-wide  especially  US  Army  for  e.g.  detonators  like 
M100 (electric), M55 (Stab) as well as in NOL-130 primer mixes are currently underway.  DBX-
1 filled initiators such as 25mm Mk210, M792, PGU-25; 30mm Mk266 and 40mm M430, M433, 
and M918 are under qualification trials by US Military. 

Considering  the  potential  scope  of  DBX-1  in  replacing  existing  less  storage  stable,  toxic 
lead-based  (LA  &  LS)  composition  towards  environmentally  benign  green  primary  explosive, 
High  Energy  Materials  Research  Laboratory  (HEMRL)  has  established  a  cost  effective,  viable 
synthetic  route  for  DBX-1  from  5-aminotetrazole  by  a  two-step  process.  DBX-1  is  fully 
characterized and assessed its performance as initiator in variety of initiating devices in-place LA 
& LS.  

N

N

N

N

NO 2

C u( I)

Molecular structure of DBX-1 

Microscopic image of DBX-1 crystals 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
