Active Electronically Scanned Array Radar (AESAR) 

Electronics  and  Radar  Development  Establishment  (LRDE),  a  premier  lab  under 

DRDO  has  developed  state-of-art  Radar  systems  and  associated  technologies.  LRDE  is 

seeking  Expression  of  Interest  (EOI)  from  prospective  bidders/recipient  for  Transfer  of 

Technology in the area of Radars.  

Presently,  LRDE  is  ready  for  ToT  for  the  “Active  Electronically  Scanned  Array 

Radar  (AESAR)”.  Prospective  bidders  for  EOI  are  advised  to  refer  the  document, 

“Guidelines for Transfer of Technology” published in the Transfer of Technology link on the 

website,  www.drdo.gov.in  for  the  terms  and  conditions  to  be  complied  by  the  bidders  for 

receipt of technology. 

1  Description of Technology:  

The AESA Radar is multimode, solid-state active phased array fire control Radar in X-

Band  with  modular  and  scalable  architecture  with  graceful  degradation  that  can  be 

adapted for various types of airborne fighter class platforms. 

AAAU 

ERP 

Front-End 

Cooling Unit 

Radar Sub-Systems 

The  Active  Electronically  Scanned  Array  is  configured  using  large  number  of  Transmit 

Receive  Modules  (TRM’s)  to  achieve  the  power  aperture  required  for  the  Radar.  The 

processing is achieved using state of the art Exciter Receiver Processor (ERP) optimised for 

use on fighter class platforms. Active phased array technology in the Radar enables user to 

achieve  high  mission  reliability  with  multi-target  tracking  capability.  The  radar  operational 

modes are designed to assist the fighter pilot in the execution of various combat missions in 

air-to-air, air-to-ground and air-to-sea operations. 

2  Salient Features: 

The  AESA  based  fire  control  radar  is  capable  of  providing  interleaved  multimode  of 

operation to meet the operational requirements of the fighter aircraft. The radar has state- 

of–the-art ECCM features. The Radar provides better situational awareness of the modern 

battlefield scenario. It is capable of tracking multiple targets with high accuracy suitable for 

1/2 

 
 
 
 
 
fire  control  along  with  interleaved  Air  to  Air,  Air  to  Ground  and  Air  to  Sea  modes  in  all 

terrain solution. 

3  Application Areas 

The AESA based fire control Radar can be configured for  use on any fighter class aircraft.

Interested  Industries  may  submit  their  company  profile,  financial  &  technical              
Capabilities  etc.  as  per  the  EOI  terms  (Refer  Appendix-G  in  ‘Guidelines  for  ToT’ 
document) to Director, LRDE, Bangalore and copy to Director DI2TM on the following 
addresses within 45 days of this advertisement. 

Director, LRDE 
DRDO, Min. of Defence, 
C V Raman Nagar 
Bengaluru-560093 
Contact No : 080 - 25025415  
                     080 - 25025518 (ToT cell) 
Fax : 080 - 25242916 

Director, DIITM 
Room No 446 DRDO Bhawan 
DRDO HQrs Ministry of Defence 
Rajaji Marg New Delhi – 110011 
Contact No : (011) 23016216 / 23007446 
Fax : (011) 23793008 

2/2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
