IMPRESSED CURRENT CATHODIC PROTECTION SYSTEMS (NMR-ICCP-MK-II) 

FOR SHIPS 

Apart from controlling current to mitigate corrosion, in this ACU, Static electric 
(SE)  signatures  caused  by  corrosion  and  CP  currents  can  be  minimised  by 
optimizing  the  location  of  the  anode and  REs  through  computer modeling.  The  CP 
current  can  be  minimized  with  the  concept  of  modular  auto  control  unit  (ACU) 
comprising of number of modules of auto control unit or power supplies in one unit. 
In this concept, the current fed by each anode is controlled by an independent ACU 
module  having  a  dedicated  RE  and  anode  providing  uniform  potential  of  the 
protected  structure.  The  CRM  signatures  can  be  minimised  by  reducing  the  SE 
signatures.  The  SE  signature  due  to  power  supply  ripple  can  be  minimised  by 
specifying low ripple power supplies. The EM field associated with SE signature can 
be  minimised  by  reducing  SE  signatures.  For  minimizing  above  signatures,  Naval 
Materials Research Laboratory (NMRL), Ambernath has developed a microcontroller 
based modular ACU having low ripple power supplies. 

The  designed  Microcontroller  based  modular  ACU  feed  minimum  current  to 
provide uniform hull potential which will result in reducing the underwater signature. 
This  ACU  is  interactive  to  the  user  in  view  of  monitoring  and  fault  diagnosis, 
minimizes  human  intervention  and  reduces  maintenance  requirements  during  its 
operation. 

Salient Features 

 Microcontroller  based  modular  ACU 
consists  of  eight  modules  interfaced 
with  industrial  PC  inbuilt  touch  screen 
panel. Each module comprises of a low 
ripple  dc  power  supply,  a  control 
module  with  dedicated  anode  and 
reference electrode. 

 Real time health monitoring of hull and 
ICCP components using SCADA facility 
and  storing  ACU  parameters  at 
predetermined intervals. 
 Alarms for generated faults. 
 Fault 

troubleshooting  and  remedial 

measures as ready- reckoner. 

 Data logging of ICCP readings in ship’s 

monthly returns format. 

Application 

Cathodic  protection  with 

ICCP 
system  can  be  used 
for  corrosion 
protection  of  ship's  under  water  hull, 
floating  metal  objects  and  any  other 
submerged structures in marine medium. 

 
 
 
