Smart Helmet 

The  urban  combat  scenario  is  always  challenging  given  the  constrained  space  of 
operation  and  the  unknowns  of  the  area  of  operation.  Hence  any  form  of  real  time 
situational awareness increases the chances of success. To address this need for  real 
time  situational  awareness  especially  for  urban  low  intensity  operations  the  “Smart 
Helmet” can  capture  the  3D information  of any  unknown  environment  in  real time  and 
assist  in  tracking  combat  agents  in  No-GPS  scenarios  leading  to  better  planning  and 
decision making. 

The  “Smart  Helmet”  comprises  of  a  sensor  suite  mounted  on  the  helmet  of  an  active 
combat  soldier  which  in  turn  are  connected  to  a  wearable  “waist  pack”  compute  to  be 
worn around the waist. The sensor suite consists of a solid state LiDAR (Light Detection 
and  Ranging)  with  an  optical  RGB  camera  and  a  IMU-enabled  (Inertial  Measurement 
Unit) stereo camera.  

The Smart Helmet works in two modes : 

1.) The Mapping Mode : In this mode, the combination of sensors help to capture the 
3D  information  of  any  environment  in  real  time  and  the  software  (running  on  the 
compute) generates a 3D map of the same environment. Along with 3D map a database 
of unique 2D RGB images is recorded and stored on the compute. Each 2D RGB image 
is uniquely mapped to a particular 3D location in the 3D map.  

2.) The Localization Mode : In this mode, any combat agent wearing the Smart Helmet 
can  determine  its  3D  position  w.r.t  the  3D  map  in  real  time.  The  optical  sensor  in  the 
sensor suite captures the images in real time and is matched with the unique 2D image 
database using an AI algorithm. From this matching the 3D position of the combat agent 
w.r.t. the 3D map is determined. Hence by just using optical sensor like a RGB camera 
we are able to determine the 3D coordinates of a moving combat agent in real-time. 

The 3D map can serve as a “Local Positioning System” for conflicted and remote areas 
where  we  might  have  “No  GPS”  or  “Low  GPS”  scenario.  With  the  help  of  the  “Smart 
Helmet” working in Localization mode, members of a combat team or search and rescue 
team can precisely determine their own 3D positions in real time.  

This  positioning  system  has  an  accuracy  of  up  to  50  cm  and  has  no  dependency  on 
external positioning system or external RF source. Using a suitable wireless system the 
positional  information  of  multiple  combat  agents  wearing  the  “Smart  Helmet”  can  be 
transmitted  to  a  central  hub.  The  live  position  information  of  multiple  combat  agents 
inside a hostile territory increases the situational awareness and will help a commander 
in effective planning and decision making 

 
 
 
