NBC LEAK TESTER Mk II 

NBC  Leak Tester Mk II/Fitment tester is an automated field  usage  electronic tester which 
evaluates  the  fitment  (leak  tightness)  of  NBC  respiratory  full-face  mask.  This  is  a  Controlled 
Negative Pressure (CNP) based quantitative fitment type instrument. 

Salient features: 

•  Micro-controller based system with data storage facility 

•  Consists  of  leak  tester  Mk  II  unit,  adapter  assembly,  three  sizes  dummy  heads  (small, 

medium, large), and Pelican stormcase iM2620. 

•  Can be used on both the Human subject and Dummy heads. 

•  Capable  of  evaluating  the  functional  integrity  of  the  NBC  respiratory  mask  (Large,  Medium, 

and Small size) on dummy heads. 

•  Determines the result in the form of fitment factor and also indicate the acceptance/rejection of 

mask through green and red LED respectively. 

•  Operates from 220VAC ± 10%, 50/60 Hz AC (Primary), 12V DC rechargeable internal battery 
Lithium  ion  or  equivalent  (Secondary)  and  External  12V  DC  Lithium  ion  battery.  Internal 
battery works for minimum 8 hours in absence of AC power. 

•  Equipped with facility to interface to external PC/Laptop/Workstation with RS232/USB for data 

download. 

•  High  precision  Pressure  Sensor which  reads  pressure  in mm  of WC and  Flow  sensor which 

reads flow in cc/min. 

•  Admissible values are engraved at front panel for Fitment limit reference.  

•  Modular concept for easy replacement of faulty modules at unit levels. 

•  Robust and capable of operating in our climatic conditions and meets relevant specification as 

per JSS 55555. 

•  Portable,  Light  weight  (4  kg  approx.),  Simple  to  operate  and  Easy  to  handle  with  minimum 

training. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Contact Details 

Interested companies/industries are requested to apply against this EoI through email or by DAK 
to following address:- 

To(with attachement) 

The Director 

Defence Bioengineering & Electromedical Laboratory 

Defence Research & Development Organisation 

Govt. of India, Ministry of Defence 

Cv Raman, Bangalore-560 093 

Email-director.debel@gov.in 

Copy to(without attachement) 

The Director 

Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM) 

Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110 011 

Email-diitm.hqr@gov.in 

List of Support documents to be attached with EoI 

(a)  Memorandum  and  Articles  of  Association  (Should  be  incorporated  as  per  Indian  Companies 
Act, as amended time to time) 

 (b) Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any. 

 (c) Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.  

(d) Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period  

(e)  Details  of  shareholding/ownership  pattern  especially  foreign  partners/  shareholders,  foreign 
employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt of India policies and 
regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable.  

(f) Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  

(g) Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company. 

 (h) Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel. 

 (i)  Record  of  past  performance  (e.g.,  Supply  orders  executed  against  of  Ministry  of  Defence 
orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).  

(j)  Availability  of  adequate  infrastructure  (List  of  machines  and  their  production  capacities)  and 
technical expertise.  

 
 
 
(k) List of Testing and Support equipment’s 

 (l) ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification  

(m) Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any) 

 (n)  Capacity  and  capability  to  undertake  developmental  work  and  to  accept  attendant  financial 
and commercial risks.  

(o)  Capacity/capability  to  market  the  product  through  the  marketing  network,  sales  and  service 
network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 

(p) PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy Material, explosives, 
propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc.  

(q)  Under  taking  form  company  seeking  ToT  that  none  of  its  Directors,  Independent  Directors, 
non-executive Directors, Key management personnel are involved in any corrupt practices, unfair 
means and illegal activities. 

(r) Details of the industrials license for defence manufacturing be provided by the industry seeking 
ToTs. 

 
 
  
 
