Bulk production of cyclo organopentasilane for deposition of Silicon thin 

films 

The  amorphous  silicon  and  crystalline  silicon  thin  films  are  used  for  electronic 

applications  such  as  LED,  solar  panels,  TFT,  sensors,  display  devices  etc. 

Conventional  processes  use  organometallic  precursors  such  as  Si,  SiC,  GaAs, 

GaP, AIN, CdSe, CdHgTe, CuGaInSe to prepare electronic thin films. The present 

research 

is  related 

to  non-pyrophoric  and  non-corrosive  precursors  cyclic 

organopentasilane  precursors  used  in  bulk  quantity  for electronic  applications  and 

the  process for preparing  the  same. These processes  require  highly  sophisticated 

instrumentation facility like CVI, CVD or laser ablation etc. Out of these the Si thin 

films  have  attracted  most  of  the  users  due  to  their  longer  life  and  comparatively 

easy  availability  of  raw  materials.  For  such  applications  SiH4  and  SiCl4  are  most 

commonly  used  precursor  materials.Due  to  pyrophoric  nature  of  silanes,  handling 

and  processing  of  these  materials  required  high  degree  of  manipulation  skills  and 

highly sophisticated processing devices which restrict easy commercialization of the 

products and technology.  

The hygroscopic and corrosive nature of SiCl4 also restrict its applications and due 

to  generation  of  HCl,  the  Si  thin  films  could  not  be  grown  beyond  the  certain 

thickness  thus  further  limiting  its  applications.  So  continuously  attempts  are  going 

on to use oligomeric / polymeric Si materials for deposition of Si thin films. Recently 

pentasilane  has  shown  very  promising  results  as LED materials. But  the  synthetic 

processes of these materials are also very cumbersome though safer to handle.            

Further,  the  CVD  and  other  thermal  techniques  are  being  used  for  deposition  of 

amorphous  Si  and  crystalline  silicon  thin  films,  which  are  very  costly  and  also 

precursors  used  in  these  techniques  are  highly  toxic  and  pyrophoric  in  nature. 

Hence there is a global demand to develop simplest techniques for the deposition 

of Si thin films.   

DMSRDE, Kanpur has successfully optimized the technology for “Bulk production of 

cycloorganopentasilane  for  deposition  of  Si  thin  films”more  particularly  to  a  non-

pyrophoric  and  non-corrosive  precursors  cyclic  organopentasilane  precursors  for 

deposition  of  silicon  thin  films  in  bulk  quantity  for  electronic  applications.  The 

present 

invention  also 

relates 

to 

the  process 

for  preparation  of  

cyclicorganopentasilane. 

Page 1 of 1 

 
