Expression of Interest  

TOT of Portable Diver Detection Sonar (PDDS) system 

NPOL,  Kochi,  a  premier  laboratory  under  Defence  R&D  Organisation  invites 

Expressions  of  Interest  (EOI)  from  original  manufacturer(s)  having  sufficient 

experience, expertise and willing to undertake production of state-of-the-art portable 

diver detection system. The firm should be technologically sound to manufacture and 

supply the system with requisite quality standards. 

PDDS is a portable sonar system capable of detecting potential underwater threats 

like,  divers  and  diver  delivery  vehicles  in  shallow  waters.  The  system  alerts  the 

operator  to  confirm  the  type  of  threat  so  that  effective  countermeasures  can  be 

initiated  in  time.  The  system  can  be  deployed  either  outboard  a  ship  or  at  any 

location  in  a  harbor,  typically  beside  a  wall,  pier  or  at  the  sea  bottom.  As  an  auto-

alert system, PDDS performs detection, tracking and classification of divers or diver-

like targets automatically and alerts the operator accordingly. The target information 

provided by the system includes (i) target position (range and bearing) and (ii) target 

dynamics (speed  and course). Technical  Specifications  of  the  system are enclosed 

at Annexure ‘A’ 

Interested parties may respond along with their company profile, financial & technical 

capabilities etc. as per the following format –  

a)  Memorandum  and  Articles  of  Association  (Should  be  incorporated  as  per 

Indian Companies Act, 1956)  

b)  Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.  

c)  Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.  

d)  Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period  

e)  Details  of  shareholding/ownership  pattern  especially 

foreign  partners/ 

shareholders, foreign employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to 

the  prevailing  Govt.  of  India  policies  and  regulations  on  Foreign  Direct 

Investment (FDI).  

f)  Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  

g)  Numbers and details of IPR or patents etc. held by the company.  

 
 
 
h)  Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel.  

i)  Record of past performance (e.g. Supply orders executed against of Ministry 

of Defence orders, public sectors and paramilitary forces, if any.  

j)  Availability  of  adequate  infrastructure  (List  of  machines  and  their  production 

capacities) and technical expertise.  

k)  List of Testing and Support equipment. 

l) 

ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification  

m) Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any) 

n)  Capacity  and  capability  to  undertake  developmental  work  and  to  accept 

attendant financial and commercial risks.  

o)  Capacity/Capability  to  market  the  product  through  the  marketing  network, 

sales and service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 

Eligible parties will have to sign Confidentiality & Non-Disclosure Agreement (CNDA) 

with  DRDO  for  technical  discussion  including  specifications,  following  which  they 

shall be considered for giving Transfer of Technology (TOT) on non-exclusive basis. 

TOT to industry will be given based on their manufacturing capability, assurance on 

quality and capacity of production apart from other terms and conditions.  

Interested Industries may contact/ write to Director,  NPOL, Kochi or Director DI2TM 

on the following addresses – 

Director, NPOL 
DRDO, Min. of Defence,  
Thrikkakara P.O. 
Kochi-682021 
Contact No - 0484 2424878 
Email: director@npol.drdo.in 

Director, DI2TM  
Room No 446 DRDO Bhawan  
DRDO HQrs Ministry of Defence  
Rajaji Marg New Delhi – 110011  
Contact No - (011) 23016216 / 23007446 

 
 
 
Annexure ‘A’ 

Portable Diver Detection Sonar system (PDDS) 

1.  Product overview 

PDDS is a portable sonar system capable of detecting potential underwater threats like divers 

and diver delivery vehicles in shallow waters. The system alerts the operator to confirm the 

type of threat so that effective countermeasures can be initiated in time. The system  can be 

deployed either outboard a ship or at any location in a harbour, typically beside a wall, pier or 

at the sea bottom.  

The system consists of units under water and on shore, interconnected by water blocked cable 

carrying  data  and  power  supply  lines.  The  wet-end  unit  is  a  sonar  head  consisting  of 

transducer  arrays,  transmitter  and  front-end  receiver  electronics  hardware.  The  shore  units 

consist of an interface unit, a processing and display units and power supply. As an auto-alert 

system,  PDDS performs  detection, tracking and  classification of divers  or diver-like targets 

automatically  and  alerts  the  operator  accordingly.  The  target  information  provided  by  the 

system  includes  (i)  target  position  (range  and  bearing)  and  (ii)  target  dynamics  (speed  and 

course). 

Fig. 1. Wet-end Unit of Portable Diver Detection Sonar 

1 

 
 
 
 
 
2.  Technical Specifications 

General 
Features 

Sl. 
No. 
1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

Features 

Specification 

Targets 

Divers, Diver Delivery Vehicles, Midgets 

Target strength 

> -20 dB 

Detection range 

Up to 300m 

Coverage sector 

360° Azimuth, 16° Elevation 

Deployment Scheme  Out-board ship /pier / harbour / seabed 

Dimensions 

Diameter: ~500 mm, Height: ~700 mm 

7  Weight in air 

8  Weight in water 

~50 kg 

~5 kg 

9 

Operating depth 

Up to 50 m 

Operation 

10  Operating frequency  75 kHz 

11  Band width 

±5kHz 

12  Tx Beam width 

360° Azimuth 6°,12°,24° Elevation(Selectable) 

13  Rx Beam width 

3° Azimuth, 16° Elevation 

14 

15 

Pulse type 

Pulse width 

CW,FM 

1-40 ms 

16  Range resolution 

17  Bearing resolution 

1m 

1° 

Configuration 

System components 

(a) Wet-end Unit: Sonar Head 

(b) Processor & Display Unit 

(c) Interface Unit 

18 

19 

Sonar head 

20  Transducer arrays 

(d) Deployment structure 
Projector and hydrophone arrays integrated with 
power amplifiers and receiver electronics for 
transmission and reception, respectively. 
Independent transmitter & receiver arrays 

21  Array geometry 

Cylindrical 

22  Built-in sensors 

Temperature, humidity, heading, tilt & depth  

3.  System Configuration 

As  shown  in  Fig.  2,  the  total  system  consists  of  a  wet-end  unit  (sonar  head)  connected 

through a water-blocked cable to an interface unit, form where further data is transmitted to a 

2 

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
processing and display unit. A deployment structure is also provided, depending on the type 

of installation. 

.  

Fig. 2. PDDS - System Configuration 

3.1. Wet-end Unit 

The wet-end unit of PDDS consists of the transducer arrays and the associated electronics for 

transmitter and receiver, all housed inside a watertight enclosure. The transmitter consists of 

a projector array and power amplifiers. The input signal to the power amplifier is generated 

by  the  processor  and  fed  through  a  transmitting  controller.  The  transmitter  is  designed  to 

generate  acoustic  signals  of  specific  strength,  pulse  shape  and  pulse  width  that  can  be 

controlled  according  to  the  water  conditions  prevailing  at  the  location  of  operation.  The 

receiver  consists  of  a  hydrophone  array  and  front-end  electronics.  The  hydrophone  array 

picks  up  the  incoming  acoustic  signals  and  transforms  into  electrical  signals.  The  signal 

strength  is  very  low  of  the  order  of  a  few  microvolts.  Therefore,  the  hydrophone  output  is 

amplified  using  preamplifiers,  and  then  filtered,  digitized  and  passed  on  to  the  signal 

processor.  

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
3.2. Interface Unit 

The data from the wet-end unit is transmitted through a watertight cable to an interface unit, 

which  is  installed  on  shore  or  on-board  ship  close  to  the  point  where  the  watertight  cable 

comes  out  of  the  water.  The  data  is  received  in  the  interface  unit  and  further  transmitted 

across  to  the  processor  and  display  unit.  The  power  supply  of  220V  is  fed  to  the  interface 

unit, from where it is supplied to the wet-end unit. 

3.3. Processor & Display Unit 

The Processor  & Display  Unit is  a high performance  ruggedized  computer  (with  integrated 

WLAN).  It  performs  advanced  acoustic  signal  processing  algorithms,  including,  Beam 

former,  Automatic  Detection,  Automatic  Track  and  Automatic  classification.  The  detector 

and track output are displayed in the display with map overlay. 

4.  System Features 

  High frequency sonar with extended detection range 

  Fully automated solution for underwater security 

  Detects and classifies underwater intruders with very low target strength 

  Automatic  alarm on detection of threat 

  Capable of detecting multiple targets around 360° in the azimuthal plane 

  Useful for protection of waterside assets & installations with 24x7 surveillance 

  Very narrow beams for fine resolution in bearing of small targets 

  High probability of detection  

  Low probability false alarm 

  Very low maintenance requirements 

  Enables rapid deployment and movement between sites 

  Portable system with compact packaging 

  Flexible deployment schemes for fixed-site applications / on board vessels 

  Ruggedized system for operation in all-weather and water conditions 

  Modular design enables customization for site-specific geography 

  User friendly GUI scheme for quick and efficient operation 

  Provides sonar picture in desired formats 

  Provides tactical GUI with map overlay 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
