Expression of Interest 

TOT OF AN ADVANCED LIGHT TOWED ARRAY SONAR (ALTAS) 

1.  INTRODUCTION 

NPOL,  Kochi,  a  premier  laboratory  under  Defence  R&D  Organisation  invites 

Expression  of  Interest  (EOI)  from  Indian  manufacturers  having  sufficient  experience, 

expertise  and  willingness  to  undertake  System  Integration  of  an  Advanced  Light 

Towed  Array  Sonar  (ALTAS)  on  Naval  Platforms.  ALTAS  system  consists  of  mainly 

four  subsystems  i.e.  Wet  end  system,  Launch/Recovery  unit  (LRU),  On-board 

Electronics and System Software.  

Launch/Recovery Unit 

On-board Electronics 

Tow Cable Assy 

Transmitter Array 

Receiver Array 

Schematic of  ALTAS System 

1. The  Wet  End  System  consists  of  Transmitter  and  Receiver  Arrays  and  Tow  Cable 

assembly.  The  Transmitter  Array  is  housed  in  a  Vertically  stabilised  body  and  is 

hooked  on 

to 

the  seamless  Tow  Cable  with 

linear 

receiver  Array.  The 

Launch/Recovery unit consists of  a Heavy Duty Winch for Deployment, Retrieval and 

Stowage  of  tow  cable  assembly  and  Receiver  Array  and  a  hydraulically  operated 

robotic  handling  gears  for  the  launch/recovery  of  the  Vertically  stabilised  body.  The 

receiver  array  is  linked  to  the on-board  electronics  through fibre  optic  telemetry.  The 

 
 
on-board  electronics  consists  of  transmit  waveform  generators  including  power 

amplifiers for generating the acoustic pulse and specific hardware modules for signal 

processing and display. The system software which resides on the on-board hardware 

modules  implements  advanced  signal  processing  algorithms  for  target  detection  and 

localisation and presents the results in innovative display formats. 

Technical Specifications are enclosed at Annexure ‘A’ 

2.  RESPONSIBILITIES OF SYSTEM INTEGRATOR 

ALTAS  is  a multidisciplinary  sonar  system  consisting  of  technologies  of  transducers, 

mechanical  engineering,  ocean  engineering,  electrical  and  electronics  engineering, 

power electronics and software. Realisation of the entire sonar system under one roof 

may not be practical because of the diversity of technologies, know-how and skill set 

required.  And  hence  the  hardware  content  of  the  sonar  has  been  realised  as 

subsystems  through  specialised  Indian  industries  and  integrated  as  ALTAS  sonar 

system by incorporating dedicated software developed by NPOL. The responsibility of 

its  installation  onboard  a  naval  ship  and  the  role  of  lead  system  integrator  was 

undertaken by NPOL. The performance validation of the system was done under the 

leadership  of    NPOL  and  with  the  association  of  Indian  Navy  through  a  series  of 

structured  sea  trials  with  real  targets  deployed  at  strategic  locations.  Performance 

validation has since been completed, the Indian Navy will shortly evaluate the system 

as  per  mutually  agreed  trial  plan  and  procedure.    Indian  Navy  has  plans  to  induct  a 

few ALTAS sonar systems for its front line war ships soon after evaluation trials. The 

purpose of this EOI is to identify one / two potential Lead System Integrators (LSI) for 

ALTAS system.    And the scope  of  TOT , after completing all official formalities, will 

be  restricted  to  system  level    configuration  and  specifications,  interface  controls, 

supply  chain  and  Bill  of  Materials,  Acceptance  Test  procedure  for  subsystems  and 

components, software integration procedure, binding data for installation, performance 

validation  criteria  and  system  maintenance  tips.    Responsibilities  of  Lead  System 

Integrator are further elaborated in the succeeding sections. 

2.1  Act as a single point contact between the Indian Navy/NPOL 

a.  The  sub-systems  of  ALTAS  system  has  been  developed  through  specialised 

Industries.  

b.  Detailed Specifications, Quality policy / program for component level to system level, 

ATP,  FAT’s,  HAT’s  and  SAT’s  documents  and    BOM  will  be  provided  in  the  TOT 

documents. 

c.  The  LSI  will  field  ALTAS  system  against  RFP  from  Indian  Navy/other  sources  by 

submitting Technical, commercial and price bids appropriately. 

d.  Once  a  Supply  order  is  placed  on  the  Lead  System  Integrator  (LSI)  ,  the  LSI  will 

execute  the  order  within  the  stipulated  time  frame  and  budget  by  liaising  with  the 

sub-system manufacturers for realising the hardware, strictly adhering to the supply 

chain given in the TOT documents,  and by integrating software as per procedure. 

2.2  Organising QT/ET/ATP at the premises of sub-system manufacturer. 

a.  System  Integrator  has  to  organise  QT/ET  at  the  manufacturers  end  as  per  sub-

system acceptance document provided in the TOT document.  

b.  System Integrator has to conduct FAT’s at the manufacturers end as per sub-system 

Factory  acceptance  document  provided  in  the  TOT  document  before  despatch  of 

sub-system for system Integration 

c.  System  integrator  will  ensure  the  presence  of  competent  authority  responsible  for 

Quality assurance during all inspection stages. 

2.3  System Integration at own factory before despatch to the destination 

a.  Before  despatch  to  destination  Onboard  electronics  and  wet  end  subsystems  of 

ALTAS  have  to  be  Integrated  and  evaluated  as  per  FAT’s  document  issued  along 

with TOT Document at the own factory premises of System Integrator.  

b.  All    facilities  essential    for  conduct  of  System  Integration  will  be  organised  by  the 

system Integrator.  

c.  System  integrator  will  ensure  the  presence  of  competent  authority  responsible  for 

Quality assurance and inspection. 

2.4 

Installation On-board designated Platforms 

a.  System  integrator  will  carry  out  the  installation  of  ALTAS  system  on-board  Naval 

Ship identified by Navy/NPOL. System integrator will be responsible for survey of the 

Ship  and  association  with  board  of  officers  nominated  for  the  Siting  board  for 

installation of ALTAS System. 

b.  System  integrator  will  prepare  all  necessary  installation  drawing  specific  to  the 

designated Naval Ship.  

c.  System  integrator  will  transport  all  the  sub-system  to  the  harbour  identified  for  the 

installation of ALTAS System. 

d.  System  integrator  will  ship-in  all  the  necessary  sub-systems  and  carry  out  the 

installation and Integration on-board the designated Naval Ship.  

e.  System  integrator  is  responsible  for  Laying  of  power  cables,  junction  boxes  and 
control  panels  required  for  system  integration.  System  integrator  has  to  procure  all 
the necessary accessories for the same. 

f.  System  integrator  is  responsible  for  Air-conditioning,  lighting  and  ventilation  at  the 
area  where  ALTAS  systems  are  installed.    Air  conditioning  includes  cooling  of 
cabinets for On-board electronics.  

g.  System integrator is responsible for Providing False roof, Wall panelling and flooring 

at the area of installation as per Ship standard. 

h.  System  integrator  is  responsible  for  Plumbing  works  to  make  available  fresh  water 

and sea water necessary for system operation 

i.  System  integrator  will  carry  out  the  installation  as  per  procedure,  safety  norms  and 

security norms of ship. 

j.  System  integrator  will  ensure  the  presence  of  competent  authority  responsible  for 
Quality  assurance  throughout  the  installation  procedure  and  will  be  responsible  for 
completing installation inspection by the competent authority. 

2.5  Conduct HAT’s and SAT’s. 

a.  System integrator will  organise the conduct of HAT’s and SAT’s post-installation  as 

per Documents provided during TOT.  

b.  System  integrator  will  ensure  the  presence  of  competent  authority  responsible  for 

HAT’s and SAT’s. 

2.6  Post Installation support like routine and preventive maintenance, AMC etc. 

a.  System integrator will  carry out Post Installation support like routine and preventive 

maintenance,  AMC  etc.  of  the  ALTAS  system  on  the  platform  in  which  the  ALTAS 

system is installed.  

b.  The  responsibility  of  the  entire  “Product  Life  Cycle  Support”  lies  with  the  Lead 

System Integrator. 

3.  TOT TERMS 

3.1  As per DRDO Guidelines for Transfer of Technology (TOT), the first TOT will normally 

be given to the industry associated during development on priority so as to ensure high 

quality of manufacture within the limitations in hand-holding support of DRDO. 

3.2  As  more  than  one  industry  was  involved  in  the  realisation  of  the  various  sub-systems 

during  the  development  of  ALTAS  System,  the  supply  chain  established  by  NPOL 

should not be disturbed by the industry that is nominated as the lead system Integrator.  

 
 
 
3.3  TOT will be given on non-exclusive basis only. The number of license on non-exclusive 

basis  will  be  restricted.  However,  additional  licence  if required  will  be  given  by  DRDO 

on need basis. The intellectual property rights shall always remain with DRDO.   

3.4  The  amount  and  payment  stages  of  TOT  fee  will  be  as  prescribed  by  DRDO.  As  per 

current guidelines it is upto 20% of its developmental cost. 

3.5  Royalty fee @ 2% of the annual sales will be applicable uniformly for all industries. 

3.6   Technical  assessment  of  the  industries  submitting  EOI’s  will  be  carried  out  by  a 

Technical  assessment  committee  for  verification  of  the  technical  and  financial 

capability/capacity of the industry. 

3.7  Eligible  parties  will  have  to  sign  Confidentiality  &  Non-Disclosure  Agreement  (CNDA) 

with DRDO for technical  discussion including specifications, following  which they shall 

be considered for giving Transfer of Technology (TOT) on non-exclusive basis. 

3.8  TOT  to  industry  will  be  given  based  on  their  manufacturing  capability,  assurance  on 

quality and capacity of production apart from other terms and conditions.  

3.9  The licencing agreement for transfer of technology (LATOT)  which is to be signed  will 

be  as  per  the  template  approved  by  Department  of  Legal  affairs.  Ministry  of  Law  and 

Justice. 

3.10 

 DRDO shall have the march-in rights to use the IP for its own use in the interest of 

the Govt. of India without any restrictions, irrespective of the nature of licence granted. 

3.11  The  firm  expressing  interest  should  be  technically  sound  to  Procure/manufacture, 

supply,  install,  Integrate  and  maintain  the  system  with  requisite  quality  standards. 

Domain  knowledge 

in 

installation, 

integration  and  maintenance  of  deployable 

underwater systems onboard  naval ships is  considered to  be  essential for satisfactory 

completion of system commissioning and sea trials.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  EOI TERMS 

Interested  Industries  may    write  along  with  their  company  profile,  financial  &  technical 

capabilities etc. as per the following format  to Director, NPOL, Kochi and copy to Director 

DIITM on the following addresses  within 45 days of this advertisement. 

Director, NPOL 
DRDO, Min. of Defence,  
Thrikkakara P.O. 
Kochi-682021 
Contact No - 0484 2424878 
FAX : 0484-2424858 
Email: director@npol.drdo.in 

Director, DIITM  
Room No 446 DRDO Bhawan 
DRDO HQrs Ministry of Defence  
Rajaji Marg New Delhi – 110011  
Contact No - (011) 23016216 / 23007446 
FAX No. 011-23793008 

a)  Memorandum  and  Articles  of  Association  (Should  be  incorporated  as  per  Indian 

Companies Act, 1956)  

b)  Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.  

c)  Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.  

d)  Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period  

e)  Details of shareholding/ownership  pattern especially foreign  partners/ shareholders, 

foreign employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt. 

of India policies and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI).  

f)  Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  

g)  Numbers and details of IPR or patents etc. held by the company.  

h)  Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel.  

i)  Record  of  past  performance  (e.g.  Supply  orders  executed  against  Ministry  of 

Defence orders, public sectors and paramilitary forces, if any.  

j)  Availability  of  adequate  infrastructure  (List  of  machines  and  their  production 

capacities) and technical expertise.  

k)  List of Testing and Support equipment. 

l) 

ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification  

m) Relevant clearances from the authorities/ ministries (if any) 

n)  Capacity  and  capability  to  undertake  developmental  work  and  to  accept  attendant 

financial and commercial risks.  

o)  Capacity/Capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales and 

service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 

 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION 

Annexure ‘A’ 

ADVANCED LIGHT TOWED ARRAY SONAR (ALTAS) 

System Configuration 

The ALTAS system will consist of a linear towed receiver array of 78 mm diameter with appropriate 
length for the detection of signals in active and passive modes, a vertical towed projector Unit for active 
transmissions, a hydraulically operated winch,   handling systems for towed receiver array and towed 
projector Unit, tow cable assembly, on-board electronics and system Software for signal  processing, 
display & recording of sonar information. Brief of each of these subsystems is given in the following 
section. 

Winch & Handling System 

Tow Cable assembly 

Towed Projector Unit 

Towed Receiver Array 

Schematics of ALTAS 

Towed Receiver Array (TRA) : This is a linear array of hydrophones, typically 200 m long, housed in 
polyurethane hose of outer diameter 78 mm, along with signal conditioning electronics. 

Towed Projector Unit (TPU): This consists of a Vertical Projector Array (VPA) and a hydro dynamically 
streamlined Vertical towed body (VTB). VPA is an array of projector elements for active sonar operation  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tow Cable Assembly (TCA):  Tow Cable assembly act as the life line of Towed Array Sonar, transferring the 
drag force to the winch, acting as the medium for transferring power supply to the arrays and providing a 
data telemetry link. Tow cable assembly is also used for depth keeping and level keeping of the arrays during 
sonar operations. Tow Cables are electro-optic-mechanical cables having electrical lines, Fiber optic lines and 
strength member. Tow cable assembly consists of a heavy tow cable, light tow cable and an interface unit. 

Winch & Handling System (WHS): Sonar winch is used for winding, unwinding and stowage of the array and 
cables. A hydraulically operated winch is used for ALTAS.  The   Handling System is the mechanism through 
which towed transmitter body is deployed and retrieved. A hydraulically operated robotic handling system is 
used for the deployment / retrieval of a vertical Towed Transmitter Body. An overhead sheave positioning 
mechanism helps smooth deployment and retrieval. 

Cable and Array Wound on Winch 

 
 
 
 
 
Launching/Retrieval Mechanism for Towed Projector Unit 

Onboard Electronics (OBE): This subsystem receives the data through a fibre optic data link from the array. 
It further does various signal processing techniques and displays the relevant parameters of the target in 
both active and passive modes of operation of the sonar.  

ALTAS Subsystems 

On-Board Electronics 

 
 
 
 
 
 
The ALTAS sonar is divided into four subsystems as detailed below. 

1.  Wet end subsystem  

This consists of : 

a)  Towed Receiver Array consisting of acoustic and non acoustic modules and tail drogue. 

b)  Tow  Cable  Assembly  consisting  of  Heavy  Tow  Cable,  Light  Tow  Cable,  Electro  -  Opto  - 

Mechanical interface connector and cable interface module. 

c)  Towed Projector Unit consisting of vertical projector Array, Tuning Coil Box, Vertical Towed 

Body, Bridle Assembly and Cable Harness assembly. 

d)  Array Data interface Box.  

2. 

 Winch  and  Handling  System:  This  consists  of  a  heavy  duty  winch  with  primary  operation  by 

hydraulic drives and auxiliary electrical drives, hydraulically operated robotic handling system, VTB 

trolley, fairlead assembly and an overhead sheave positioning mechanism. 

3.  Onboard Electronics system: This consists of two in number display cum processor cabinets, one in 

number  power  supply  cabinet,  two  in  number  power  amplifier  cabinets  and  one  in  number  data 

recorder cabinet. 

4.  Software:  The  System  software  which  resides  on  the  on-board  hardware  modules  implements 

advanced signal processing algorithms for target detection and localisation and presents the results 

in innovative display formats. Exclusive rights for software will remain with NPOL. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
