High Explosive Technologies for 84mm ATEX Shell (PBXPW-1) 

Description of Technology: 
There was a need to develop high explosive technologies for the blast type of ammunition to 
destroy various targets.  

High  explosive  technology  has  been  developed  by  DRDO  to  destroy  various  targets. 
Exhaustive studies were carried out to finalize the HE compositions and their filling methodologies 
in warhead to realize the required performance lethality at the desired distances. The pressable HE 
technology has been developed for the main filling of the shell and for the booster charge.   

More powerful main filling of HE composition has been finalized for the Blast (BF) shell. Booster 
pellets are of HE composition (PBXP 101). They are developed for continuation of explosive train.  
HE  preparation  and  pressing  for  shell  of  ATEX  has  been  established.  All  trials  such  as  static 
performance,  fuze  initiation,  SD  explosive  train,  blast,  dynamic  trials  of  ammunitions  for  design 
validation  and  final  performance  has  been  completed  successfully.  Developed  high  explosive 
composition met QR. 

Application Areas: 
High  explosive  compositions  and  their  filling  in  shell  of  PBXPW-1  is  designed  and  developed  by 
DRDO to destroy various targets by blast at short distance. 

Unique Selling Point (USP): 
All  the  trials  including  User  trials  of  ammunition  in  both  static  and  flight  modes  have  been 
completed successfully. Developed technology met QR and it is equivalent to global level. All the 
raw materials for the filling of warhead system are available indigenously. The equipments required 
for the preparation of explosive composition and filling are available within India.  

Contact Details 

Interested companies/industries are requested to apply against this EoI to following address:- 

To, 

Director 

High Energy Materials Research Laboratory (HEMRL) 

DRDO, Govt. of India, Ministry of Defence 

Sutarwadi, Pune-411 021 

Email-director.hemrl@gov.in 

Copy to:- (without attachment) 

The Director 

Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM) 

Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110 011 

Email-diitm.hqr@gov.in 

 
 
 
 
List of Support documents to be attached with EoI 

(a)   Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian Companies 

Act, as amended time to time) 

 (b)   Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any. 

 (c)   Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.  

(d)  

Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period  

(e)   Details of shareholding/ownership pattern especially foreign partners/ shareholders, foreign 
employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt of India policies 
and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable.  

(f)  

Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  

(g)   Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company. 

 (h)   Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel. 

 (i)   Record  of  past  performance  (e.g.,  Supply  orders  executed  against  of  Ministry  of  Defence 

orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).  

(j)  

Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their production capacities) and 
technical expertise.  

(k)  

List of Testing and Support equipment’s 

 (l)  

ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification  

(m)   Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any) 

(n)   Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept attendant financial 

and commercial risks.  

(o)   Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales and service 

network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 

(p)   PESO  and  DPIIT  license  for  explosive  handling  if  ToT  is  for  high  energy  Material, 

explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc.  

(q)   Under taking form company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, Independent Directors, 
non-executive Directors, Key management personnel are involved  in any corrupt practices, 
unfair means and illegal activities. 

(r)  

Details  of  the  industrials  license  for  defence  manufacturing  be  provided  by  the  industry 
seeking ToTs. 

 
  
 
 
 
