SHAFT GROUNDING SYSTEM SYSTEMS MK-II (NMR-SGS-MK-II) FOR SHIPS 

To minimize current flow through the bearings and gears, most ships are fitted 
with  a  Passive  Shaft Grounding  (PSG) system,  which  electrically  grounds  the  shaft 
through a mechanical slip ring assembly. As the bearings and seals are not perfectly 
round and concentric with the shaft, and because of the properties of the insulating 
oil  film,  the  resistance  between  the  shaft  and  hull  varies  as  the  shaft  rotates.  This 
change  in  resistance  modulates  the  ICCP  current  flowing  down  the  shaft  and 
generates  what  is  termed  the  extremely  low  frequency  electric  (ELFE)  signature  of 
the  ship.  This  modulation  of  the  current  generates  an  electromagnetic  wave  in  the 
region  surrounding  the  ship.  This  signature  can  be  detected  hundreds  of  meters 
away  from  the  ship  and  can  be  used  to  trigger  naval  sea  mines  or  to  monitor  and 
identify particular ships and their movements. To control this ELFE,  Naval Materials 
Research  Laboratory  (NMRL),  Ambernath  has  developed  a  microcontroller  based 
active shaft grounding (ASG) system. 

The  Microcontroller  based  active  shaft  grounding  (ASG)  is  developed  to 
effectively  minimize  the  voltage  between  the  shaft  and  the  hull  which  significantly 
reduces  fluctuations  in  current  between  shaft  and  hull  and  therefore  reduction  of 
shaft rate extremely low frequency electromagnetic signature (SR ELFE) originating 
from rotation of shaft. ASG also protects propeller from corrosion.  

Salient Features 

 Shaft  to  hull  potential  substantially 

reduces fluctuations in current.  

 Provision 

for  monitoring 

shaft  

potential and current 

 Provision  for  interconnecting  with 
modular  ACU  and  monitoring  ASG 
parameters of ACU. 

 Provision for data logging 

Application 
Reduction of ELFE signatures and also 
corrosion protection of ship Propellers. 

 
 
 
 
 
