Explosive Reactive Armour (ERA) Mk-II 

Explosive  Reactive  Armour  (ERA)  is  used  for  protection  of  Tanks  against  anti- 
tank threats namely, High Explosive Anti Tank (HEAT) and Kinetic Energy ammunition.  

High  Energy  Materials  Research  Laboratory  (HEMRL)  in  association  with 
Defence  Metallurgical  Research  Laboratory  (DMRL) and  Combat  vehicles  Research  & 
Development Establishment (CVRDE) has developed ERA Mk-II for adaptation to Tank 
T-72 and Arjun MBT Mk-II.  

ERA  Mk-II  consists  of  mainly  two  subsystems,  reactive  elements  and  armour 
panels.  Different  size  panels  are  fitted  on  Tank  with  a  provision  for  positioning  of 
reactive  elements  inside  the  panels.  The  panels  are  fitted  on  tank  by  welding  fixtures 
and  mounting  structures.  The  number  of  reactive  elements  in  panels  on  different 
locations is different, but size of reactive elements is same. Explosive in sheet form is 
used in ERA.  

Thus, ERA technology involves: 

i) 
ii) 

iii) 
iv) 
v) 
vi) 

Preparation of reactive elements 
Preparation  of  armour  plates  of  different  thicknesses  using  DMRL  developed 
armour material 
Fabrication of metallic panels 
Proof testing of reactive elements along with panels  
Fabrication of various mountings/ fixtures 
Preparation  of  Tank  surface  for  welding  of  mountings/fixtures,  which  involves 
relocation of certain components 
vii)  Welding of mountings/ fixtures on tank  
viii)  Fitment of panels on tank  

ERA Mk-II has been proven against designated ammunition during the user trials 

and it is likely to be productionised soon.    

Infrastructure required for manufacture of ERA Mk-II  

  Reactive elements  
i)  Sigma Mixer  
ii)  Rolling Machine  
iii)  General  fabrication  equipments  like  shearing  machine,  Die  &  punch, 

marking & measurement tools  

iv)  Crimping machine  

  Armour panels  

i) 
ii) 

Armour steel plates as per CDA 99 specifications  
Fabrication machines/ equipment for shearing/cutting, welding etc. as per 
drawings and specifications     

Only  those  firms  which  are  having  expertise  in  handling,  processing  and 
storage  of  explosives  and  are  having  the  requisite  license  to  handle  the 
explosive  from the appropriate authorities will be eligible for TOT of the above 
item.  

Interested  parties  may  respond  along  with  their  company  profile,  financial 

and technical capabilities as per the following format: 

a)  Memorandum  and  Articles  of  Association  (should  be  incorporated  as  per 

Indian Companies Act, 1956) 

b)  Certificate of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any 
c)  Balance sheet for the preceding three years 
d)  Income tax returns for the preceding three year period 
e)  Details  of  shareholding/ownership  pattern  especially 

shareholders, foreign employees, Directors, etc   

foreign  partners/ 

f)  Annual budget for R&D during last three years 
g)  Numbers and details of IPR or patents etc held by the company 
h)  Numbers of technically or professionally qualified personnel 
i)  Record of past performance (e.g. supply orders executed against Ministry of 

Defence Orders, public sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any. 

j)  Availability  of  adequate  infrastructure  (list  of  machines  and  their  production 

capacities) and technical expertise 
k)  List of testing and support equipments  
l) 
m) Relevant clearances from the authorities/ ministries (if any) 
n)  Capacity  and  capability  to  undertake  development  work  and  to  accept 

ISO/ISI certification or any other certification 

attendant financial and commercial risks 

o)  Capacity  /  capability  to  market  the  product  through  the  marketing  network, 

sales and service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality.  

Eligible  parties  will  have  to  sign  Confidentiality  and  Non-Disclosure 
Agreement (CNDA) with DRDO. Interested industries for TOT may write to The 
Director, HEMRL Pune on following address: 

The Director 
HEMRL, DRDO, Ministry of Defence 
Sutarwadi, Pashan 
Pune-411021 

 
 
 
   
