HYDROPHOBIC POTTING MATERIAL 
HYDROPHOBIC POTTING MATERIAL

hips get polarized 
It is frequently observed that ICCP electrodes of Indian Naval ships get polarized 
It is frequently observed that ICCP electrodes 

flooding  of  cofferdam  with  bilge  water  or  ingress  of  water  from 
by  shorting  due  to  the  flooding  of  cofferdam  with  bilge  water  or  ingress  of  water  from 
flooding  of  cofferdam  with  bilge  water  or  ingress  of  water  from 

cofferdam  itself  leading  to  frequent

.  The  electrode 
to  frequent  repairing  of  electrode  connections.  The  electrode 

connectors of ICCP system cannot be encapsulated 

cannot be encapsulated in the cofferdam with 

with thermosetting 

resin  as  water  proofing  material  su

ecause  repairing 
proofing  material  such  as  epoxy,  polyurethane  etc.  because  repairing 

work of electrode needs the entire potting materia

entire potting material to be removed from the 

the cofferdam. It 

ystem. NMRL developed a 
is very difficult to remove existing potting material from the system. NMRL developed a 
is very difficult to remove exis

potting  compound  based  on  silicone  resin  having

ound  based  on  silicone  resin  having  unique  characteristics

unique  characteristics  such  as 

hydrophobicity  as  well  as  softness

rophobicity  as  well  as  softness  after  curing.  After  complete  curing  of 

after  curing.  After  complete  curing  of  this  potting 

material, whenever there is a requirement of repairing work of electrode, it can be easily 
material, whenever there is a requirement of repairing work of electrode, it can be easily 
material, whenever there is a requirement of repairing work of electrode, it can be easily 

removed  from  the  cofferdam. 

4  hrs.  However 
cofferdam.  It  cures  at  ambient  condition  within  24  hrs.  However 

complete hard drying takes 7 da

7 days time.  

Above potting compound is

compound is prepared by mixing the base component

the base component with catalyst 

in  their  requisite  ratio.  After  proper  mixing

it  can  be  poured  in  the  cofferdam  to 
After  proper  mixing,  it  can  be  poured  in  the  cofferdam  to 

encapsulate the electrode connectors.  
encapsulate the electrode connectors.

This  potting  material  can

material  can  be  poured  in  the  manually  cleaned  cofferdam 

cofferdam  coated 

with  two  coats  of  epoxy  primer. 

primer.  In  field  trial,  after  a  period  of  2  years,

,  the  developed 

potting  material  was  found  free  from 

free  from  cracks  and  delamination  and  showed 

showed  stable  hull 

potential. The expected service life

years. 
ervice life of this material will be more than 10 years.

Surface preparation of 
cofferdam  

Cofferdam filled with potting 
Cofferdam coated with primer  Cofferdam filled with potting 
material 
material

Photographs of cofferdams at various stages  
Photographs of cofferdams

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
The salient features of the potting material are as given below, 

  Two component system 

  100 % solid, No VOC 

  Quick  setting  at  ambient  temperature,  hydrophobic  and  chemical 

resistant material 

  User friendly application of potting material 

  Avoid short circuiting of ICCP components with ship’s hull  

  Hardness : 55 ± 3 Shore A 
  Dielectric constant (0.1 -105 Hz) : 0.6 
  Electrical resistivity (Ω cm) :  1.3 X 1012 

  Cured material can be easily removed for maintenance of electrodes 

 
