AEROGEL INSULATION MATERIAL BASED EXTREME COLD WEATHER

CLOTHING

The   cold   weather  clothing   presently  used   by  the  Armed   Forces and   developed   by
DEBEL caters to subzero climatic conditions up to -20 to -30 deg C. Armed Forces in
the recent times have projected requirements of an effective Cold weather clothing up to
-50 deg C.   The existing cold weather ensemble based on multilayer clothing does not
cater to the requirements projected above. Keeping the above present and futuristic
requirements in view, DEBEL in association with TUL, Czech Republic embarked into
the   development   of   Aerogel   insulation   material   to   address   and   meet   the   critical
requirements of cold weather clothing and has established a technology of providing an
effective solution to the Extreme Cold weather and Glacier region. 

Aerogel   material   characterised   by   a   combination   of   high   porosity   and
extremely   small   pores   provides   lowest   bulk   density   of   any   known   material,   highest
specific surface area of any monolithic (non-powder) material (up to 3200 m2/g) and
very   low   thermal   conductivity   and   hence   offer   light   weight   solutions   compared   to
contemporary insulating materials which restrict body movement thereby hindering the
operational movements of the pilots.

In   order   to   meet   extreme   cold   weather   clothing,   Aerogel   (Amorphous   silica   was
incorporated in the nano solution and nano fibre was spun - needleless electro-spinning
with   nanofibre   size   in   the   range   of   100   to   200   nm)   and   reinforced   with   non-woven
structures. The technology associated in the manufacture of non-woven is based on
STRUTO/ROTIS/Spun bonding/spun laced techniques. 

       This state of the art technology will also give an opportunity to incorporate nano
fibre structure wherein Aerogel can be incorporated in a sandwich pattern. The above
technical   textile   structure   is   converted   into   garment   finds   applications   in   sub-zero
climatic  conditions  and   can  be   effectively  used   in  Paratrooper   Jump  suits   and   Cold
weather Jackets. The technical edge that the aerogel based nano fibres and nonwovens
offer is also expected to find applications in the area of Space suits.

