Expression of Interest (EoI) for ToT of process for manufacturing 

of 2-DEOXY-D-GLUCOSE (2-DG) 

1.  Description 

2-Deoxy-d-glucose (2-DG) is a glucose analogue, which has the 2-hydroxyl group replaced by 
hydrogen. 2-DG is transported in cells by the glucose transporters on the cell membrane but it 
cannot undergo further glycolysis and act as inhibitor of glycolysis. Therefore, cells with higher 
glucose  uptake, for example tumor cells, virally infected cells, inflammatory cells have  also  a 
higher uptake of 2-DG. Since, it accumulates selectively more in such cells with high glucose 
demand;  it  offers  an  attractive  approach  of  inhibiting  tumor  cell  growth,  viral  infection  and 
inflammation.  

Laboratory  synthesis  process  for  2-DG  (2-Deoxy-d-glucose)  has  been  developed  using  
D-Glucose as starting material. The synthesis process consists of conversion of D-Glucose to 
2-DG  through  five  chemical  reaction  steps  followed  by  purification.  The  process  has  been 
established  at  batch scale (100g) and pilot  plant scale (500g). Necessary  patents  have  been 
filled by DRDO in this regard. It is proposed to offer Transfer of Technology (ToT) of 2-DG to 
Indian  Pharmaceutical  industries  for  production.  The  ToT  seeking  Indian  Pharmaceutical 
industries shall comply following criteria/ requirements:- 

(a) Drug  License  to  manufacture  Active  Pharmaceutical  Ingredient  (API)  from  Drug 

Licensing Authorities.  

(b) API production capability. 

(c) WHO GMP (Good manufacturing Practices) certification. 

(d) Drug manufacturing facility consisting of chemical operation like acetylation, bromination, 
reductions  etc  over  wide  temperature  rage  (-5  0C  to  100  0C)  and  unit  operations  like 
vacuum filtration, vacuum distillation, extraction and crystallisation.  

(e) Capacity  to  absorb  the  technology  and  have  capacity  to  produce  the  API  with 
approximately  2000  Kg  per  month  and  bring  the  drug  in  the  market  within  a  shortest 
possible time.  

(f)   Fulfilment of all regulatory requirements for manufacturing, QA/ QC etc for the API.  

(g)  Not under any ban by Govt of India/ Any state Govt/ UT or any Govt Agency. 

(h)  Not be under insolvency resolution. 

(i)  In-house R&D facilities for API.  

2.  ToT Fees 

ToT  Fee  of  Rs  25  Lakhs  is  payable  by  industry  to  DRDO  at  the  time  of  signing  of  Licensing 
Agreement for entering into Licensing Agreement for Transfer of Technology (LAToT). 

 
 
 
3.  EOI Submission Date 

Industry may apply for EoI up to 17th June 2021. The EoI is to be submitted by email only. The 
EoI submitted by industries will be scrutinised  by a Technical Assessment Committee (TAC). 
Only up to 15 industries will be given ToT on their capabilities, technical handholding capability 
of DRDO and on “First Come First Served Basis”.  

4.  Contact Details 

Interested companies are requested to apply against this EoI through email to following:- 

To 
Director 
Defence Research & Development Establishment (DRDE) 
Defence Research & Development Organisation 
Govt. Of India, Ministry of Defence 
Jhansi Road, Gwalior-474002 
Email : director[at]drde[dot]drdo[dot]in 

Copy to (for information) 
The Director 
Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM) 
R No 447, DRDO Bhawan, DRDO HQrs, 
Rajaji Marg, New Delhi -110011 
Email : diitm[at]hqr[dot]drdo[dot]in 
             tot[at]hqr[dot]drdo[dot]in 

5.  Documents to be submitted with EoI 

The company must provide details about company and documents in support of their claim as 
per Appendix-  A. Any additional documents as required by DRDO shall be sought based on 
request received from the interested industries. 

6.  Other Terms and Conditions 

The Other Terms and conditions for industry seeking ToT are the following:- 

(a)  DRDO reserves the right to reject any offer or proposal without assigning any reasons.  

(b)  Submission of EOI does not guarantee ToT to applicant industry. 

(c)  A committee of experts constituted by DRDO may visit the company manufacturing sites 
and  facilities  for  assessing  the  strengths  and  capacity  as  furnished  by  the  respective 
company before shortlisting for ToT.  

(d) 

Industry may obtain necessary permission/ License/ approval from the suitable authority 
for any application/ usage of 2-DG (2-deoxy-D-Glucose) as per the rules/ processes of 
Govt of India in vogue after successful ToT.  

 
 
 
 
 
Appendix-A 

List of support documents to be attached with EOI 

(a)  Memorandum  and  Articles  of  Association  (Should  be  incorporated  as  per  Indian 

Companies Act, as amended time to time) 

(b)  Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any. 

(c) 

 Audited  Balance  Sheet,  turnover  and  net  worth  of  the  company  for  the  preceding  three 
years. 

(d) 

 Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period 

(e)  Details  of  shareholding/ownership  pattern  especially  foreign  partners/  shareholders, 
foreign employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt of India 
policies and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable. 

(f)  Annual budget (if any) for R&D during last three years. 

(g)  Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company. 

(h)  Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel. 

(i)  Record  of past performance (e.g., Supply  orders executed against of Ministry  of Defence 

orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any). 

(j)  Availability  of  adequate  infrastructure  (List  of  machines  and  their  production  capacities) 

and technical expertise to manufacture 2-DG. 

(k)  List of Testing and Support equipments for 2-DG. 

(l) 

ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification (if any). 

(m) 

 Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any).  

(n)  WHO GMP certificates, Drug License for API where it is proposed to manufacture.  

(o)  Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept attendant financial 

and commercial risks. 

(p)  Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales and service 

network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 

(q)  Under taking from company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, Independent Directors, 
non-executive  Directors,  and  Key  management  personnel  are  involved  in  any  corrupt 
practices, unfair means and illegal activities. 

(r)  Under taking from Company seeking ToT in respect of Para 1 (g) and Para 1(h) of EoI. 

(s)  Brief  description  of  R&D  facilities  and  certificates  recognised  by  any  Govt  agencies/ 

institutions like CSIR.  

 
