PLASTIC SCINTILLATOR SENSORS (ROD and SHEET) 

Introduction:  Plastic  scintillator  converts  the  energy  dissipated  by  ionizing  radiation  into 
pulses  of  light.  It  consists  of  a  solid  solution  of  organic  scintillating  molecules  in  a 
polymerized  solvent.  Plastic  scintillators  are  the  most  widely  used  organic  scintillators  for 
nuclear  radiation  detection.  Polystyrene  based  plastic  scintillator  sensors  of  various 
dimensions have been developed. Plastic scintillator rods (length of 500 mm and diameter of 
50  mm)  and  sheets  (dimension  500  mm  x  500  mm  x  25  mm)  have  been  successfully 
developed. Plastic scintillator sensors can be fabricated in large dimensions. They are more 
sensitive & fast and provide better area coverage as compared to GM tubes. Contamination 
monitoring  systems  based  on  plastic  scintillator  sensors  requires  very  less  sensors  as 
compared to G.M. tube based systems e.g. a Laundry Monitor will require one or two large 
plastic  scintillator  sensors.  Plastic  scintillator  based  systems  are  more  reliable  and  require 
very less maintenance.  

Salient  Features:    Important  features  and  parameters  of  the  Plastic  Scintillator  sensor  are  as 
follows: 

  Wide range of size flexibility based on applications (Disc, Rod, Sheet etc.) 
 
 
 

 High sensitivity as compared to gas based sensors 
 Fast response and better area coverage and  Sufficiently high light output  
 Relatively low cost  

Parameter  

Dimensions:      Rod 
                          Sheet 
Base Material  

Value/Range  

Length 500 mm, diameter 50 mm 
500 mm x 500 mm x 25 mm 
Polystyrene  

Wavelength of maximum emission  

420-425 nm  

Light Output  

Density  

Refractive index 

Softening temperature  (Vicat A)  

~ 60% of Anthracene  

1.04 g/cc  

1.58 ± 0.02  

 94-97 °C  

Plastic Scintillator Disc, Rod and 

Sheet 

Application:  As a sensor in radiation contamination monitoring systems viz. Gamma Portal 

Monitor,  Laundry  Monitor,  Hand  Foot  Contamination  Monitor,  Floor  Contamination 

Monitor, Radiation Frisker etc. 

Status: Tested and prototype systems for contamination monitoring based on the sensors are 

developed.  

 
  
 
 
 
 
