Write-up on 
“Development of High Explosive Formulation having high shock insensitivity, high velocity 
of detonation and high blast effects for filling PCB warhead of PJ-10 (BrahMos) missile” 

Description of Technology: 

The  developed  technology  comprises  of  a  high  explosive  formulation  HEMEX  having 
unique  characteristics  pertinent  for  filling  Penetration  cum  Blast  (PCB)  warhead  for  PJ-10 
(Brahmos) missile.HEMEX is a HMX basedmelt cast aluminizedcomposition tailored to realize 
contrary  property  requirements  of  high  shock  insensitivity  with  high  velocity  of  detonation 
(VOD) and high blast performance. The design parameters manipulated to realize these unique 
characteristics are selection of explosive and non-explosive ingredients, their proportion, particle 
size  of  ingredients,  processing  temperature  and  duration,  viscosity,  evacuation  pressure  and 
duration,  casting  method  etc.  HEMEX  composition  has  a  relatively  high  density  of  about  1.84 
g/cm3, high VOD of about 7600m/s, and high shock insensitivity of 3.5 x 103MPa compared to 
existing formulations for warhead application.  

Vacuum casting methodhas been developed for HEMEX filling in the PCB warhead for 
PJ-10 (Brahmos) missile. The filling parameters like vacuum pressure and duration, temperature 
of melt, increment size etc. have been established to minimize defectsin the filling. Casting under 
vacuum  alsohelps  uniform  and  homogenous  flow  of  HEMEX  melt  in  all  the  regions  of  the 
warhead. 

Application Areas: 

India & Russia have developed the Brahmos missile, a state-of-the-art weapon system,in 
joint collaboration. The PCB warhead of the missile is mainly designed for use against surface 
ships and may also be used to destroyother targets like air-force buildings and installations, naval 
bases, POL depots, factories, power engineering centers etc. 

Its USP – such as Certifications and test results etc.: 

The  indigenously  developedHEMEX  filled  PJ-10  (Brahmos)  warhead  has  been 
exhaustively  evaluated  for  blast  and  fragmentation  parameters,  environmental  tests  and 
mechanical  qualification  tests,fragment  impact  test,  drop  test  and  explosive  train  test.  The 
warhead has passed all the tests. The HEMEX based indigenously developed warhead has been 
accepted for integration in the Brahmos missile.  

The existing standard melt facilities available at ordnance production centers are suitable 
for  preparation  of  HEMEX  composition.  The  formulation  may  also  find  similar  application  in 
future military applications. The machinery and equipment required for filling of the warhead is 
indigenously available in India. 

CQA(ME)  has  issued  safety  certificate  forproduction  of  HEMEX  composition  and  its 

filling of warheads. 

-------------------- 

 
 
 
 
Photo

ograph of PJ

J-10 (BrahM

Mos) Filled W

Warhead 

 Filled 
Warhead 

  W

Cut view 
C
Filled 
Warhead 
W

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
