COMMON AIRCREW HELMET

The use of specific Protective Equipment and Flying Clothing by a

Fighter   Pilot   is   mission   oriented   and   the   importance   of   providing   light

weight   solutions   to   enhance   long   endurance   missions   is   widely

acknowledged.  Integrated  Common  Helmet is  one   of the   flying  clothing

products which was undertaken under Common Helmet-Common mask to

meet specific requirements of the Users’ operating Fighter Aircrafts and

Helicopters. Helmet as a head gear is essentially a life saving device and

hence the item has to be retained around wearer’s head when subjected

to   the   effects   of   air   friction   during   the   process   of   ejection.   Thus,   the

retention of the Helmet-Mask is of paramount importance to ensure the

safety and survival of the Pilot.

DEBEL   has   designed   and   developed   state   of   art   integrated

Externally retractable Polycarbonate Visor based Aircrew Helmet for MiG

21,   HAWK,   Kiran-Jaguar   Aircraft   and   Helicopter   Series   (Cheeta,  Cheetal,

Chetak,   ALH   and   Mi-17   Series)   and     has   met   various   MiL   and   Def.

standards   including   the   wind   blast   test   cleared   by   RCMA(A/C)   for   540

KEAS. The item has undergone extensive User trials, accepted by Users

for   introduction   into   Service   and   airworthiness   certificate   has   been

accorded by RCMA (A/C) and RCMA (Hptrs).  

Salient Features

a. Designed for inter convertibility between the Euro and MiG series

b. Impact Attenuation  and Penetration  Resistance  Complies  Def Stan

05-102  by using high performance fabrics and Epoxy Resin.

c. Withstood wind blast Test at 540 KEAS as per MIL-V-29591/1 (AS)

d. Optical and Ballistic Grade PC Visors for protection of eyes and face

from Wind Blast, sun Glare, UV light, Bird Hit, etc.   

e. Noise attenuation covering low  to high frequency 

f. Effective   mechanisms   to   Anchor   Pressure   Breathing   Oxygen   Mask

with flexibility in adjustments as per individual’s requirement.

g. Provision to Mount NVG on the outer surface of the shell to provide

situational awareness to the pilot ( for Helicopters)

h. Visor movements/ Selection of visor for day and night sorties

i. Helmet available in 5 sizes

j. Helicopter   Helmets     have   Boom   Microphone   with   a   change   over

switch for swapping between Mask Mic and Boom Mic

k. Successfully passed the Ejection seat test

Fig 1: Common Aircrew Helmet for Aircrafts and Helicopters

