Electronic Fuze for 81 mm Mortar Bomb 

A  mortar  is  a  weapon  that  fires  explosive  projectiles  i.e.  mortar  bombs  at  low 
velocities,  short  ranges,  and  high-arcing  ballistic  trajectories.  The  existing  bomb 
81mm  Mortar  HE  uses  point  detonating  (PD)  fuze  which  are  mechanical  of  nature 
and are of second generation. These fuzes uses primary explosive based detonator 
which  are  sensitive  to  heat,  friction,  shock  and  EMI/EMC.  Moreover  they  uses 
complex safety and aligning mechanism.  

ESAD  technology  is  being  incorporated  in  fuzing  systems  for  conventional 
weapons  to  enhance  the  safety  during  storage,  transportation  and  usage.  Initiators 
used  are  intrinsically  safe  as  they  use  only  comparatively  insensitive  secondary 
explosives i.e. PETN, RDX etc. No use of primary explosives in the fuze avoids the 
need  of  many  complex  moving/rotating  devices  in  Safety  &  Arming  mechanisms. 
Hence  TBRL  had  developed  4th  generation  Fuze  for  81  mm  mortar  ammunition 
based on the ESAD technology. The silent feature of the developed fuze are: 

1.   Electronic time (ET) and Point detonating (PD) Fuze. 

2.  Compatible with standard fuze well of 81mm Mortar. 

3.  Passive power source in the form of turbogenerator 

4.  Contactless inductive programmability of time 

5.  Barrel and post launch safety   

6.  Fail safe design 

In  the  designed  and  developed  fuze,  Air  driven  turbo  generator  is  used  as 
power  source  to  initiate  explosive  train  which  also  acts  as  safety  device.  Turbo 
generator has to operate continuously for  certain time period for functioning of fuze 
thus  ensuring  barrel  and  launch  platform  safety.  On  receiving  power,  the  control 
electronics  identifies  the  mode  of  operations  (i.e.  PD  or  ET)  and  functioning  time 
which  was  given  to  the  fuze  through  contactless  inductive  fuze  setter  before  the 
launch of the bomb. A hardware delay is also provided to ensure safe separation of 
ammunition for the launch point.  This ensures safety of the firing crew. Commands 
are issued by control electronics at the pre-set time and given to the firing unit. If the 
mode  of  operation  selected  is  PD,  the  control  section  senses  the  impact  using 
accelerometer  and  initiates  the  explosive  train.  Robust  and  reliable  software  is 
developed to carry out the predefined functionality. 

 EBW detonator will be provided by TBRL at the prevailing cost at that time as 

the same is not part of development and is a restricted technology.  

 
 
 
 
