 “Ambulance Bike -Rakshita”

In low intensity combat areas immediate evacuation of security personnel of our
security and paramilitary forces operating in the naxal-affected area is always
fraught   with   danger   due   to   heavily   IED   mined,   non-existent   roads,   congested
streets   or   interior   locations.   Soldiers   move   either   on   foot   or   on   bikes   due   to
unpaved   and   narrow   roads,   to   eliminate   the   risk   of   being   caught   in   an   IED
explosion   or   of   a   surprise   attack.   Operational   problem   of   not-well   equipped
ambulance and non availability of trained medics make the situation even worse
to provide medical aid to injured soldiers. 

Institute of  Nuclear Medicine  and Allied Science (INMAS),  a  Delhi-based   DRDO
laboratory, has developed a bike ambulance called “Rakshita” to overcome the
problems   faced   by  our   security   forces   to   provide   immediate   first-aid   and   fast
evacuation   of   injured   soldier   to   nearest   health   centre.   Rakshita   comprises   a
special   reclaimable   quick   fit-n   and   fit   out   “Pillion   Casualty   Evacuation   Seat”
made   from   high   strength   stainless   steel   or   aluminium   alloy.   The   seat   is
ergonomically   designed   to   take   care   of   the   body   contours   and   ensure   the
comfort of the patient. It features an adjustable headrest, lumbar support and
movable arm rest and can be adjusted into comfortable semi sleeping position.

It   is   equipped   with   basic   medical   equipment   with   the   capability   of   providing
emergency   medical   aid   at   a   remote   site   and   during   transportation   of   the
injured/sick from the site to the nearest medical facility/hospital. It is equipped
with first aid box, emergency medical equipment like splints, head immobilizer,
oxygen   supplying   kit.   Telescopic   I.V.   fluid   bag-stand   and   vital   physiological
parameter measuring equipment with blue tooth communication capability. The
vital parameters of the injured can be seen by the paramedic cum driver through
the monitor fitted in front of him. The injured physiological parameters can be
transmitted   to   nearby   health   facility   also   for   further   necessary   preparation
before reaching the injured. It is also fitted with siren and flasher warning light
for easy access.

The compact Rakshita can reach at the required site within the golden hours to
ensure the spot first aid along with quick and effective rescue of the causality
Cost-effective   Rakshita   can   also   be   effectively   used   in   narrow   congested   un-
motorable bylines and road of any city where medical contingencies cannot be
provided by a conventional ambulance.

