FOG based Inertial Measurement Unit/ Inertial Navigation System (IMU/INS) 

RCI has indigenously developed and qualified the technology of closed loop FOG based Inertial 
Measurement  Units  (IMU)  and  Inertial  Navigation  Systems  (INS)  for  tactical  applications  in 
various missile systems. It has been successfully flight tested in many missions and proven its 
credibility through accurate performances. FOG based IMU/INS comprises of three closed loop 
FOG  modules  to  sense  the  rotation  of  the  vehicle  (missile)  about  the  body  axes  and  measure 
the linear acceleration along the body axes using quartz accelerometers. Along with gyros and 
accelerometers, processing and driving electronics and power supply module will be packaged 
in a mechanical housing with predefined electrical and mechanical interfaces as specified by the 
respective  users.  Dedicated  clean  rooms  with  infrastructure  for  optical  integration  and  testing 
along  with  electronic  assembly  lines  and  dynamic  calibration  facilities  are  required  for  the 
fabrication of FOG based IMU/INS. IMU/INS shall be subjected to various climatic and dynamic 
tests as specified by the users, for which elaborate Environmental test facilities will be required. 
FOG  based  IMU/INS  technology  is  highly  process  oriented  and  requires  skilled  manpower 
supported  by  a  strong  Quality  Management  System  to  ensure  the  quality  at  each  level. 
Authenticated  QA  agencies  will  be  participating  in  different  stages  of  production  processes  as 
defined in the QA matrix. FOG based IMU/INS is purely an indigenous technology developed by 
RCI with an import content of 20%-28% of the overall cost.  

Interested Industries are requested to forward their Expression of Interest (EoI) to Director RCI, 
Hyderabad  (with  attachments  of  supporting  documents)  with  a  copy  of  Director  DIITM,  DRDO 
HQ (without attachment) on following address:- 

To, 

Director  
Research Centre Imarat 
Vigyanakancha 
Hyderabad-500069 
Phone : 040-24306000 
Fax : 040-24306002 

E-mail ID : director[dot]rci[at]gov[dot]in 

Copy to 

Director 
Directorate of Industry Interface & technology Management (DIITM) 
Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, DRDO HQrs, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110011 
Phone: 011-23013209/23015291 
Fax: 011-23793008 

Email: diitm[dot]hqr[at]gov]dot]in 

Page 1 of 3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
List of Support documents to be attached with EoI  

a)  Memorandum  and  Articles  of  Association  (Should  be  incorporated  as  per  Indian 

Companies Act, as amended time to time)  

b)  Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.  

c)  Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.  

d)  Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period  

e)  Details  of  shareholding/ownership  pattern  especially  foreign  partners/  shareholders, 
foreign  employees,  directors,  etc.  The  company  must  adhere  to  the  prevailing  Govt  of 
India  policies  and  regulations  on  Foreign  Direct  Investment  (FDI)/DIPP  norms  as 
applicable.  

f)  Annual budget for R&D during last three years.   

g)  Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company.  

h)  Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel.  

i)  Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of Defence 

orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).  

j)  Availability  of  adequate  infrastructure  (List  of  machines  and  their  production  capacities) 

and technical expertise. 

k)  List of Testing and Support equipment’s  

l) 

ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification  

m) Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any)  

n)  Capacity  and  capability  to  undertake  developmental  work  and  to  accept  attendant 

financial and commercial risks.  

o)  Capacity/capability  to  market  the  product  through  the  marketing  network,  sales  and 

service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality.  

p)  PESO  and  DPIIT  license  for  explosive  handling  if  ToT  is  for  high  energy  Material, 

explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc.  

q)  Under  taking  form  company  seeking  ToT  that  none  of  its  Directors,  Independent 
Directors,  non-executive  Directors,  Key  management  personnel  are  involved  in  any 
corrupt practices, unfair means and illegal activities.  

r)  Details  of  the  industrials  license  for  defence  manufacturing  be  provided  by  the  industry 

seeking ToTs. 

In  addition  to  above  following  Additional  Terms  &  Conditions  included  in  the  EOI  for 
Identification  of  Industry  Partner  for  ToT  of  “FOG  based  Inertial  Measurement  Unit/ 
Inertial Navigation System (IMU/INS)” 

 (a)  Prior  experience  of  at  least  3  years  in  handling  production/development  of  fiber  optic 
systems  for  Defence/Aerospace  applications.  Experience  in  handling,  assembly  and  testing  of 
optical  fiber,  testing  and  characterization  of  passive  optical  components  and  opto-electronic 

Page 2 of 3 

 
 
devices  and  usage  of  various  optical  test  &  measurement  equipment  etc  will  be  required 
(desirable) 

(b) 
Adequate  qualified  human  resources,  infrastructure  and  test  equipment  to  carry  out  the 
integration  of  multi-layer  PCBs  and  Fiber  Optic  assemblies.  Trained  manpower  in  PCB 
assembly, testing,  screening as per CEMILAC procedure and integration of complex electronic 
modules  and  functional  testing  as  per  the  process  document  are  essential.  Relevant 
infrastructure such as soldering work station, cleaning- coating  setups, anti-static work benches, 
digital  multi  meters,  oscilloscopes,  function  generators,  regulated  power  supplies,  data 
acquisition system etc are required (essential). Knowledge and experience in the integration of 
optical fiber assemblies with electronic modules is desirable. 

Clean  room  of  classes  10000-100000  for  optical  and  electrical  integration.  Class  10000 
(c) 
clean room of min area 120 m2 for optics (desirable) and class 100000 clean room of min area 
200 m2 (essential) will be required for electrical integration and testing. Metric optic tables and 
vibration isolated test benches will be required for optical integration (desirable). 

(d) 
Requisite  infrastructure  for  production  of  avionics  systems  and  the  system  delivered 
should  have  been  flight  tested  in  Defence/Aerospace  applications.  Any  of  the  system 
developed/produced  by  the  firm  shall  be  inspected  and  cleared  by  an  Authorized  QA  agency 
(following all QA procedure specified) before integrated/tested with a main system (essential). 

Dynamic  test  &  calibration  set  ups  for  inertial  Sensors  and  Systems  along  with  facilities 
(e) 
for Environmental testing. Dynamic test calibration equipment includes single axis and two axis 
rate  tables  with/without  thermal  chambers,  thermal  chambers,  data  acquisition  system,  test 
fixtures, centrifuge etc (desirable). 

Page 3 of 3 

 
 
 
