Expression of Interest (EoI) for ToT of FLAME RETARDANT AUTOMATIC 
INFLATABLE LIFE JACKET (FRAILJ) 

The jacket is a life saving equipment, which is inflatable and is intended for preventing 
the  aircrew/pilot  from  drowning  in  the  event  of  an  emergency  ejection  or  landing  into 
water. 

Salient features: 

•  Made out of Flame Retardant meta aramid woven and knittedfabric, which provides 

adequate time to escape in the event of an unforeseen fire accident.   

• 

Inflatable  thermoplastic  PU  bladder  manufactured  by  RF  welding  with  stole  pouch 
for protection of bladders. 

•  Automatic  and  manual  modes  of  inflation.Automatic  inflation  mechanism  (CO2 
cylinder) with sea activated battery helps to Inflate the bladder within <5 seconds. 

•  Provides a buoyancy of minimum 18kg and keeps the wearer afloat for 4 to 6 hrs at 

a convenient angle. 

•  Para  aramid  fabric  with  very  high  Limiting  Oxygen  Index  (LoI)  is  provided  for 

additional protection of bladder against molten metal splashes. 

•  Available for Jaguar, Mirage and MiG series aircrafts. 

•  Equipped with winching tapes to pull the pilot from surface of water. 

•  Available in universal size. 

•  Provided with a  survival aid pocket to hold survival aids, Personal Locator Beacon 

(PLB), GPS antenna and V/UHF antenna. 

•  Provided with reflective tapes and fluorescent fabrics to attract the rescue team. 

•  Jaguar  version  of  FRAILJ  has  closure  plate  assembly  to  secure  man  mounted 
oxygen  regulator.  Mirage  version  has  a  smaller  closure  plate  assembly  to  secure 
HMSD cables. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Contact Details 

Interested companies/industries are requested to apply against this EoI through email or 
by DAK to following address:- 

To, 

Director 

Defence Bioengineering &Electromedical Laboratory  

Govt. of India, Ministry of Defence 

CV Raman Nagar-560 093 

Email-director.debel@gov.in 

Copy to:- 

The Director 

Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM) 

Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110 011 

Email-diitm.hqr@gov.in 

List of Support documents to be attached with EoI 

(a)   Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian 

Companies Act, as amended time to time) 

 (b)   Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any. 

 (c)   Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.  

(d)  

Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period  

(e)   Details  of  shareholding/ownership  pattern  especially 

foreign  partners/ 
shareholders,  foreign  employees,  directors,  etc.  The  company  must  adhere  to 
the prevailing Govt of India policies and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment 
(FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable.  

(f)  

Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  

(g)   Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company. 

 (h)   Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 (i)   Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of 

Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).  

(j)  

Availability  of  adequate  infrastructure  (List  of  machines  and  their  production 
capacities) and technical expertise.  

(k)  

List of Testing and Support equipment’s 

 (l)  

ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification  

(m)   Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any) 

(n)   Capacity  and  capability  to  undertake  developmental  work  and  to  accept 

attendant financial and commercial risks.  

(o)   Capacity/capability  to  market  the  product  through  the  marketing  network,  sales 

and service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 

(p)   PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy Material, 

explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc.  

(q)   Under taking form company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, Independent 
Directors,  non-executive  Directors,  Key  management  personnel  are  involved  in 
any corrupt practices, unfair means and illegal activities. 

(r)   Details  of  the  industrials  license  for  defence  manufacturing  be  provided  by  the 

industry seeking ToTs. 

 
 
 
 
