Anti Microbial Bed Sheet  

Over  the  past  ten  years,  the  importance  of  health  has  increased  significantly, 
particularly with the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Due to a lack of indigenous producers, 
the  medical  textile  industry  in  India  is  heavily  dependent  on  imports;  over  90%  of  all 
disposable  hygiene  and  medical  textiles  are  imported.  Production  of  surgical  gowns, 
surgical caps, surgical masks, blankets, surgical hosiery, and other items is implied by 
the  manufacturing  of  medical  textiles.  Adopting  healthy  behaviours  has  increased 
dramatically,  which  is  understandable  given  that  doing  so  will  boost  immunity  and 
general wellbeing. 

The  idea  of  antiviral  coatings  for  clothing  is not  new.  Before  the  epidemic,  they 
were being used for items that catered to those with particular requirements. However, 
the growth of COVID-19 has raised demand for antiviral-finished fabrics. This is due to 
the fact that antiviral fabrics can reduce the number of virus particles that accumulate on 
the fabric's surface.  

Along with other polymeric agents, medical textiles typically contain triclosan and 
cetyl  ammonium  bromide,  which  improve  the  anti-microbial  efficacy  by  killing  and 
inactivating  microorganisms  that  bind  to  intracellular  proteins.  Defence  Research 
Laboratory  has  created  a  brand-new  method  for  producing  cotton  and  polyester  bed 
sheets  that  are  antibacterial,  antiviral,  and  washable  for  up  to  20  washes  using 
Ticrolosan  and  Cetyl  Ammonium  Bromide.  The  antimicrobial  cotton  bedsheets  are 
constructed of nanofinished fabric with apolyester: cotton (50:50) blend for antimicrobial, 
antiviral  and  antifungal  protection.  When  used  against  two  representative  pathogens, 
Klebsiella  pneumoniae  (ATCC  4352)  and  Staphylococcus  aureus,  the  product  limits 
bacterial  growth  by  more  than  99.99  percent  (TCC  6538).  The  bed  linens  also 
demonstrate  the  H1N1  influenza  A  virus's  (good)  effects  (ATCC  VR-1679).  The  DRL 
antimicrobial  bed  linens  offer  an  additional  layer  of  defence  against  nosocomial 
infections for patients admitted to hospitals. In areas  with a high risk of infection, such 
as  burn  wards,  operating  rooms,  intensive  care  units,  labour  and  delivery  rooms, 
orthopaedic clinics, and isolation units, this product may also be appropriate for use. 

Contact Details 

Interested companies/industries are requested to apply against this EoI through email or 
by DAK to following address:- 

To, (with all attachments) 

Director 

Defence Research Laboratory (DRL) 

Govt. of India, Ministry of Defence 

Defence R&D Organisation 

Dekargaon, Tezpur (Assam)-784501 

Email-director.drl @gov.in 

 
 
 
 
Copy to (without attachments):- 

The Director 

Directorate of Industry Interface & technology Management (DIITM) 

Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110 011 

Email-diitm.hqr@gov.in 

List of supporting documents to be attached with EoI 

(a)  Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian 

Companies Act, as amended time to time) 

 (b)  Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any. 

 (c)   Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.  

(d)  

Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period  

(e)   Details  of  shareholding/ownership  pattern  especially 

foreign  partners/ 
shareholders,  foreign  employees,  directors,  etc.  The  company  must  adhere  to 
the prevailing Govt of India policies and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment 
(FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable.  

(f)  

Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  

(g)   Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company. 

 (h)   Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel. 

 (i)   Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of 

Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).  

(j)  

Availability  of  adequate  infrastructure  (List  of  machines  and  their  production 
capacities) and technical expertise.  

(k)  

List of Testing and Support equipment’s 

 (l)  

ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification  

(m)   Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any) 

(n)   Capacity  and  capability  to  undertake  developmental  work  and  to  accept 

attendant financial and commercial risks.  

(o)   Capacity/capability  to  market  the  product  through  the  marketing  network,  sales 

and service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 

(p)   PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy Material, 

explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc.  

(q)   Under taking form company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, Independent 
Directors,  non-executive  Directors,  Key  management  personnel  are  involved  in 
any corrupt practices, unfair means and illegal activities. 

(r)   Details  of  the  industrials  license  for  defence  manufacturing  be  provided  by  the 

industry seeking ToTs. 

 
