Expandable Mobile Shelter 

VRDE  has  designed  and  developed  mobile  shelters  for  various  applications.  The  user 

demand  is  for  more  working  space  which  is  limited  due  to  transportability  requirements  of  shelter 

dimensions. Hence VRDE have designed and developed the concept of Expandable Mobile Shelter 

(EMS)  for  futuristic  Defence  requirements.  The  idea  behind  developing  such  type  of  shelter  is  to 

create more working space in field & reduce logistics. The EMS offers a comfortable and spacious 

working  environment.  Expansion  of  the  shelter  is  carried  out  on  both  the  sides  to  provide  three 

times the original working space. Hence it is ideal for specialist roles. 

Figure 1 Expandable Shelter deployed on vehicle 

The  EMS  uses foldable  panel  type  mechanism for  expansion  of  shelter on  both  the sides. 

The  panels  after  unfolding  and  locking  will  form  a  room  for  extra  working  space.  The  EMS 

fabricated  out  of  Aluminium  material  and  sandwich  panel  construction.  In  folded  condition  the 

shelter is like conventional shelter and can be loaded on vehicle chassis. 

The EMS has been displayed to various dignitaries and the concept has been appreciated. 

After conversion into Operation Theatre (OT) role, the EMS has been demonstrated to Army Units 

at  Hissar.  The  user  unit  has  appreciated  the  EMS  with  OT  role  and  found  suitable  for  their 

application  at  forward  areas.  This  EMS  could  be  utilised  as  variants  like  Mobile  operation  rooms, 

Command  post,  Mobile  communication  shelter,  Field  office,  Field  hospital,  Mobile  repair  / 

maintenance facility and VIP caravan etc. 

1 

 
 
Shelter  in 
Folded 
Condition 
on ground 

(a) 

(b) 

Roof & floor 
panel Expansion 

Side panel 
Expansion 

(d) 

End panel 
Expansion 

Shelter fully 
Deployed 

(e) 

(c) 

(f) 

Figure 2  Operation sequence of EMS (a) EMS mounted on vehicle platform (b) EMS (in folded condition) 

deployed on the ground (c) Expansion of roof & floor panel (d) Expansion of side panels 
(e) Expansion of end panel (f) EMS fully deployed on the ground 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
