Ergonomically Designed Backpack (70 Lt ) 

Background 

Military  operations 

in  Indian  scenario  are  always  critical  and  challenging 
consideringvarious  terrains  like  high  altitudes,  desert,  jungle  etc.  Most  of  the  occasions 
carrying heavy load is an integral part which sometimes involves a load magnitude of 30kg 
and above. At the same time proper fitting of load carriage ensembles during carrying heavy 
loads  is  a  critical  issue  where  Indian  soldier’s  represent  a  broad  range  of  anthropometric 
variability i.e., 95th percentile tallest (Sikh)  to 5th percentile  shortest (Gorkha). On the other 
hand issues of mobility, comfortablyand safety is also a concern. 

Apart from the above, the scaffolding external frame in existing backpacks is shorter insize, 
thus  incompatible  with  most  of  the  soldier  population,  leading  to  discomfort  and  pain.  The 
existing  backpacks  also  do  not  have  adequate  cushioning  on  pressure  points  at  shoulders, 
back and waist region; and no integrated facility for carrying rifle and hydration pack.In this 
regard, DIPAS, DRDO has developed an ergonomically designed backpack (70 Lt ) with an 
aim to provide a well designed backpack for soldier’s as well as civilian to enhance their load 
carrying capacity as well as comfort. 

Novel features of the Backpack and their Potential benefits: 

(cid:1)  Ergonomically  designed  using 
compatibility with user population. 

indigenous  anthropometric  data,  enhancing 

(cid:1)  Made up of 6.6 Nylon that is sturdy and water resistant. 
(cid:1)  Hook-on Hydration Pack (1 litre) with antimicrobial feature helps in rehydrating  

individual during load carriage.  
(cid:1)  Provision of detachable haversack. 
(cid:1)  Outer surface is provided with the facility of pouch attachment ladder (PAL) system 

to attach optional/additional load.  

(cid:1)  Well  cushioned  padding  at  shoulder  strap,  waist  strap,  and  throughout  the  length  of 
spinal  column  causing  increased  comfort  by  distributing      pressure  equally  to 
shoulders, back and waist regions. 

(cid:1)  Adjustable shoulder strap is the unique design feature that allows the adjustability of 
the back support for different size populationsand optimizes users’ upright posture for 
better stability. 

(cid:1)  Removable  internal  Aluminium  plate  at  the  back  portion  of  backpack  for  better 

support. 

(cid:1)  Integrated rifle carrying facility on both sides of the backpack allows normal swing of 

the arms resulting in better balance and stability during load carriage.       
(cid:1)  Provision for neck and hand rest for comfort and reduction in muscular fatigue. 
(cid:1)  Option of carabiner for carrying / holding climbing equipment. 
(cid:1)  Facility to hold skis on both side of backpack.  
(cid:1)  Options for carrying climbing shoes. 
(cid:1)  Facility to cover whole backpack during rain, snow, sandstorm etc. 

Scope of Usage 

This backpack will be immensely useful to carry military loads during marching, training and 
military exercises and different civilian applications like trekking and mountaineering, sports 
and travelling. 

 
