“Indigenous Stabilization & Decontamination Material (PS-I)” 

Various  physical  and  chemical  methods  have  been  reported 

in 

literature  for 

decontamination of different surfaces contaminated with hazardous materials such as radioactive 

materials,  heavy  metals  etc.  Some  examples  of  conventional  decontamination  methods  include 

aspiration, abrasion, washing with water or with solvents, foams, gels or biomass. In particular, 

for  stabilization  and  decontamination  of  radioactive  materials,  Strippable  Polymeric  Coatings 

have shown enormous advantages over above conventional methods of decontamination due to 

ease of application, pores / cracks infiltration, rapid cure time, excellent adhesive and mechanical 

properties,  contaminant  entrapment  and  removal,  low-waste  generation  after  decontamination, 

low-costs,  wide  range  of  application  and  compatibility  with  different  types  of  surfaces  (viz. 

metal, polymer, ceramic, glass, wood etc.). The most important property of such coatings is that 

these can be easily peeled from a surface after drying and thereby avoid possibility of damage to 

structures  together  with  chances  of  secondary  contamination  through  contact  or  by  becoming 

airborne.   

A  polymericsolution 

is  applied  over 

the  contaminated 

surface.  Then, 

the 

decontaminationagent present in this solution contains the contaminant,which is drawn and fixed 

into  the  polymer  matrix.  The  coating,  obtained  after  drying  of  polymeric  solution,  keeps 

entrapped  the  contaminant  in  its  matrix  and  does  not  allow  the  contaminant  to  spread  at  other 

surfaces. The dried coatingcan be finally exfoliated and the surface remains decontaminated. A 

strippable coating serves for two main purposes first is stabilization of contaminant to the surface 

and then subsequently (when removed or peeled) decontamination of surface from contaminant. 

In  other  words,  efficiency  of  such  a  coating  is  generally  expressed  in  terms  of  stabilization 

coefficient and decontamination coefficient. 

Decontamination  polymeric  solutions  can  be  considered  as  a  mixture  of  different 

additives  in  polymeric  matrix.  Polymer  part  provides  the  continuity  to  the  film  or  coating. 

Different  additives  are  mixed  into  it  as  per  their  functional  requirements.  These  polymeric 

solutions are  being  advocated as excellent  decontamination  materials  for  strategic  applications, 

particularly for use in facilities using radioactive materials. These facilities may include nuclear 

submarines  (during  onboard  conditions),  nuclear  power  plants,  hospitals,  relevant  R&D 

laboratories etc. 

1/2 

 
 
The  “Indigenous  Stabilization  &  Decontamination  Material”  developed  by  DRDO/ 

CFEES  can  be  applied  on  a  surface  contaminated  with  radioactive  materials.  The  coating 

obtained after drying of solution provides a means for stabilization of contaminant to the surface. 

This coating can be removed subsequently resulting in decontamination of surface.  

Application filed for patent on "Decontamination Polymeric Solution and Method of Its 

Preparation Thereof".  

2/2 

 
