ACTIVATED CARBON SPHERES 

Nuclear, Biological and Chemical (NBC) threat is a global concern in the 

wake  of  terrorism  and  several  nations  having  acquired  the  capability  to  build 

these  weapons  of  Mass  destruction.  Effective  protection  of  personnel  is  very 

important  in  an  NBC  scenario.  The  conventional  NBC  individual  protective  (IP) 

equipment with powder carbon as the adsorbent imparts severe heat stress and 

gives  only  low  protection.  In  order  to  overcome  the  problems  associated  with 

powder carbon new material with high surface area and high adsorption capacity 

Activated Carbon Spheres (ACS) has been explored and production process has 

been developed by DRDE Gwalior.  

ACS  is  an  interesting  adsorbent  material  having  excellent  properties  such  as 

porous  structure,  large  surface  area,  high  micropore  volume,  controllable  pore 

size  distribution,  high  mechanical  strength,  high  purity,  smooth  surface,  high 

wear  resistance,  excellent  durability,  good  fluidity,  low  ash  content  and  low 

moisture content. Due to above mentioned qualities, ACS are commonly used in 

many  applications  like  catalyst  supports,  purification  of  blood,  supercapacitors, 

protective  suits  against  chemical  warfare  agents  and  adsorptive  removal  of 

gaseous  and  liquid  toxicants.  Using  polymeric  precursors,  specific  surface  area 

of greater than 800 m2 /g along with total pore volume of more than 0.8 cm3 /g 

have  been  obtained  and  successfully  used  for  removal  of  various  types  of 

toxicants.  The  application  of  activated  carbon  as  adsorbents  relies  on  the  pore 

size and its distribution as micropores (<2mm) and mesopores (2 to 50 nm) that 

are mostly utilized for the gas phase and liquid phase. 

ACS has been successfully used for developing individual protective equipment 

(IPE) for Services like NBC Suit Permeable Mk-V, NBC Socks, NBC Haversack 

Mk-II,  Multifunctional  NBC  boot.  Further  it  is  also  being  used  in  development  of 

Multifunctional NBC Boot, IHM etc. 

 
 
