TOT of “Microwave absorbing Spinel Ferrite powder (MWA-NSF)”

Ferrites constitute an important group of magnetic materials with a wide

range of applications due to their tuneable magnetic and dielectric properties

based on their composition and structures. The different classes of ferrites show

different   types   of   magnetic   properties   and   as   a   consequence   they   interact

differently with different frequencies of EM spectrum. The properties of ferrites

can   be   tailored   to   show   very   low   to   very   high   absorption   of   high   frequency

electromagnetic   radiations.   The   ferrites   which   absorb   energy   from

electromagnetic waves are widely used in reduction of Radar Cross Section of

any target.  

In   general,   ferrites   show   resonance   over   a   very   narrow   band   of

frequencies. Thus in order to achieve high values of MW absorption over broad

frequency range, there is a need to develop a range of ferrites covering broad

range   of   MW   frequencies.   Spinel   ferrite   shows   high   magnetic   losses   at   low

microwave   frequencies.   The   resonance   absorption   frequencies   of   the   ferrites

can be tailored by variation of composition of ferrites as well as by varying the

size and shape of particles.

Defence Laboratory, Jodhpur has developed microwave absorbing spinel

ferrite powder for the development of various stealth products in the form of

elastomeric   sheets,   structures   and   coatings   for   low   frequency   absorption   1-

8GHz. Technology for bulk production of the ferrite powder established through

wet chemical process in 10kg batch scale.  The ferrite powder is currently being

used   for   the   fabrication   of   Microwave   Absorbing   rubber   gasket   (MWAR)   of

special shape and size for airborne application.   The developed MWAR gasket

has been qualified for its production for land and air version of military target.

The requirement projected for 500 missiles in next three years. 

Keeping   in   view   of   above   requirements,   it   is   proposed   to   explore   the

possibilities   of   transfer   of   ferrite   powder   technology   to   Indian   industries   for

bulk production.

Preparation:

DLJ developed spinel ferrite can be prepared by following process: 

1. Chemical reaction for gel to carbonate precipitation in water medium

2. Separation of precipitate & washing of chloride ions

3. Drying and crushing of powder

4. Crushing and sieving of powder

5. Three stage heat treatment processes at high temperature in furnace

