LIGHT WEIGHT INTEGRATED AIRCREW HELMET 

(Su-30 HELMET)

The use of specific Protective Equipment and Flying Clothing by a
Fighter   Pilot   is   mission   oriented   and   the   importance   of   providing   light
weight   solutions   to   enhance   long   endurance   missions   is   widely
acknowledged.   Light   Weight   Integrated   Helmet   is   one   of   the   flying
clothing products which are undertaken under ALSP Program (DEB-116) to
meet specific requirements of the User’s operating Fighter Aircrafts and
Helicopters. Helmet as a head gear is essentially a life saving device and
hence the item has to be retained around wearer’s head when subjected
to   the   effects   of   air   friction   during   the   process   of   ejection.   Thus,   the
retention of the Helmet-Mask is of paramount importance to ensure the
safety and survival of the Pilot.

DEBEL   has   designed   and   developed   state   of   art   light   weight
integrated   internally   retractable   Polycarbonate   Visor   based   Aircrew
Helmet   equipped   with   Helmet   mounted   Sight   and   Display   mount,
Preamplifier   for   Su30,   MiG   series   and     has   met   various   MiL   standards
including the wind blast test at 600 KEAS by simulating crash scenario in 6
different profiles. The date obtained in the wind blast test was analysed
for   Neck   load   limits   by   Institute   of   Aerospace   medicine   Specialist   and
found to be well within the limits. 

Salient Features

a. Impact   Attenuation   and   Penetration   Resistance   (As   per   MIL-DTL-
87174A) achieved by using   hybrid aramid fabrics and Epoxy Resin.
b. Optical and Ballistic Grade PC Visors for protection of eyes and face
from Wind Blast, sun Glare, UV light, Bird Hit, etc.   (As per MIL-DTL-
43511D& MIL-V-29591/1 (AS) respectively)

c. Noise attenuation covering low (125 Hz) to high frequency (8KHz)

[As per MIL-DTL-83425A].

d. Equipped   with   Preamplifier   (EMI/EMC   complied)   to   enhance   signal

output of Microphone 

e. Effective   mechanisms   to   Anchor   Pressure   Breathing   Oxygen   Mask

with flexibility in adjustments as per individual’s requirement.

f. Provision to Mount HMSD on the outer surface of the shell to provide
situational awareness to the pilot
g. Ventilation holes to prevent heat stress and allow air circulation.
h. Microencapsulated Phase Change Materials (MPCM) adjustment pads
provided   in   different   thickness   for   effective   fitment   and   thermal
management.

i. Visor movements/ Selection of visor for day and night sorties

 Su-30 Helmet

                 
                          
