Tamarind-Ginger Munch (Tamzin) 

A  dietary  supplement  based  on  ginger  and  tamarind  in  combination  with  other  natural 

ingredients  for  relieving  motion  sickness  was  developed  and  evaluated.    The  proximate 

composition,  polyphenols  and  vitamins  content  of  the  product  were  determined.  The  average 

values for moisture, carbohydrate, crude protein, fat, ash and crude fiber were 3.9, 85, 5.9, 1.4, 

1.7  and  1.8%,  respectively.    In  general,  the  sensory  characteristics  of  both  fresh  and  6  month 

stored products had overall acceptability values of 8.5 and 7.9, respectively, on a 9-point hedonic 

scale.  The  extract  also  inhibited  the  histamine  release  in  KU812  cells  and  showed  no  adverse 

effects  measured  using  3-(4,5-dimethyl-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium  bromide  and  lactate 

dehydrogenase leakage assays.  

Seven-day oral administration of Tamzin aqueous extract to BALB/c  mice significantly 

reduced  the  rotation-induced  gastrointestinal  symptoms  such  as  conditioned  gaping,  defecation 

levels  and  locomotion  activity.  The  development  and  evaluation  of  a  natural  formulation, 

Tamzin,  for  attenuating  MS  was  studied.  TE  reduced  MS  by  inhibiting  the  gastrointestinal 

symptoms, and this may be due to suppression of the peripheral autonomic nervous system and 

central vestibulo-autonomic pathways. The results with TE were also relatively close to that of 

scopolamine for the various parameters of the animal experiments. The functional properties of 

Tamzin may be due to the additive effects of the various phytocomponents. Moreover, as these 

ingredients  are  consumed  as  part  of  the  normal  diet,  the  chance  of  causing  harmful  effects,  as 

compared 

to 

the  pharmacological  drugs  and  other  anti-emetic  medications 

including 

scopolamine,  is  also  minimal.  Overall,  the  Tamzin,  made  of  dietary  ingredients,  could  be  a 

preferred alternative to the conventional motion-sickness medications.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
