 Anti- Bed Bug Bed Sheet  

Bed  bugs  are  small,  flat  insects  that  pose  a  public  health  risk  due  to  their 
parasitic nature and blood craving. Numerous studies on bed bugs and their impact on 
human  health  have  been  undertaken.  Modern  bed  bugs,  in  particular,  are  resistant  to 
single pyrethroids. It is unknown whether the multiple pyrethroid-impregnated liners are 
effective.  There  is  limited  evidence  on  insecticides'  effectiveness  to  repel  bed  bugs.  
Permethrin,  lambda-cyhalothrin,  deltamethrin,  and  a  chlorinated  pyrrole  designated 
chlorfenapyr  are  now  used  in  combination  with  other  pyrethroids.  Bed  bug  (Cimex 
lectularius)  management  strategies  can  include  utilising  anti-bed  bug  bed  sheets 
impregnated  with  various  pyrethroids,  particularly  in  the  defence,  railway,  and  hotel 
industries.  Bed  bugs  were  studied  in  this  study  to  evaluate  how  they  would  react  to 
various  types  of  permethrin-impregnated  fabric,  with  special  attention  paid  to  contact 
toxicity, repellency, and feeding inhibition. Bed bugs became inebriated after continuous 
contact  to  impregnated  anti-bed  bug  bed  sheets,  and  the  population  achieved  100% 
death after 96 hours, despite repellent activity and the mortality being detectable for up 
to  20  washes.  According  to  photo  documentation  and  recording  data,  bed  bugs  easily 
transferred over to the pyrethroid-impregnated bed sheets and tried to escape swiftly. 

Anti-bed bug bed sheets are made of a finely woven polyester and cotton blend fabric 
that  has  been  impregnated  with  1%-concentration  combinations  of  permethrin, 
deltamethrin,  and  alpha  cypermethrin  via  a  non-covalent  bonding  procedure,  allowing 
for the formulation's bioavailability repellency and killing bed bugs. The product remains 
active for up to 20 washes after usage. 

Contact Details 

Interested companies/industries are requested to apply against this EoI through email or 
by DAK to following address:- 

To, (with all attachments) 

Director 

Defence Research Laboratory (DRL) 

Govt. of India, Ministry of Defence 

Defence R&D Organisation 

Dekargaon, Tezpur (Assam)-784501 

Email-director.drl @gov.in 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Copy to (without attachments):- 

The Director 

Directorate of Industry Interface & technology Management (DIITM) 

Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110 011 

Email-diitm.hqr@gov.in 

List of supporting documents to be attached with EoI 

(a)  Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian 

Companies Act, as amended time to time) 

 (b)  Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any. 

 (c)   Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.  

(d)  

Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period  

(e)   Details  of  shareholding/ownership  pattern  especially 

foreign  partners/ 
shareholders,  foreign  employees,  directors,  etc.  The  company  must  adhere  to 
the prevailing Govt of India policies and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment 
(FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable.  

(f)  

Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  

(g)   Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company. 

 (h)   Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel. 

 (i)   Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of 

Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).  

(j)  

Availability  of  adequate  infrastructure  (List  of  machines  and  their  production 
capacities) and technical expertise.  

(k)  

List of Testing and Support equipment’s 

 (l)  

ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification  

(m)   Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any) 

(n)   Capacity  and  capability  to  undertake  developmental  work  and  to  accept 

attendant financial and commercial risks.  

(o)   Capacity/capability  to  market  the  product  through  the  marketing  network,  sales 

and service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 

(p)   PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy Material, 

explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc.  

(q)   Under taking form company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, Independent 
Directors,  non-executive  Directors,  Key  management  personnel  are  involved  in 
any corrupt practices, unfair means and illegal activities. 

(r)   Details  of  the  industrials  license  for  defence  manufacturing  be  provided  by  the 

industry seeking ToTs 

