Ergonomically Designed Flexible Water Bottle  

Availability of drinking water is a major concern for people engaged in long duration outdoor activities 
such as military troops in strategic operations and long duration marching. Presently soldiers are using 
water bottle of one litre capacity/lesser capacity and it is made up of materials which are not classified 
under food/ medical grade. Furthermore, in areas which do not have direct access to safe drinking water, 
an alternate solution is required to provide safe drinking water from backcountry sources (pond, rivers) 
during  field  operations.  Hence,  design  and  development  of  new  water  bottle  with  integrated  filter  is 
required to directly drink water from different water sources and to store water in the bottle and drink 
from bottle through the filter.     

The present invention offers unique features like:  

1.  Ergonomic design with a capacity of 1.3L.   

Light-weight and reusable portable water bottle comprising a rigid cap and flexible water bottle 

2. 
with following features: 

3.  Bottle Cap: that can be attached and removed from the bottle. The cap has a mouthpiece/spout on the 

outside and an air vent for easy suction of water. 

4.  Thermal stability of the bottle material within the temperature range of -45°C ± 5°C to +100°C ± 5°C, 

making it useful under different climatic conditions  

5.  Provision  for  detachable  filter,  which  ensures  the  use  of  the  product  as  standalone  water  bottle  if 

filtration of water is not required.  

6.  Provision for attachment of a two-stage (activated charcoal and hollow membrane) filter in the cap of 

the water bottle. 

7.  Made with BPA-free ( 0.05 mg/kg) / food grade material. 
8.  Provision  for  use  as  a  pillow  because  the  water  bottle  can  be  simply  folded  when  empty  due  to  its 

inherent flexible characteristics. 

9.  Provision for use as a Hot-pack as well as an Ice-pack because of its broad-range thermal stability. 
10. Capability of retaining water in the bottle in liquefied state for a minimum of 4 hours, even when the 

environmental temperature is sub-zero (-20°C). 

 
                    
 
