High Temperature Erosion Resistant Composites 

Powder  Metallurgy  Group  of  DMRL  is  working  on  copper  infiltrated  tungsten 

composites  for  different  missile  components  such  as  jet  vanes,  throat  nozzles  and  throat 

inserts  that  are  used  as  altitude  controls  in  thrusters.  The  composites  are  prepared  by 

sintering  of  pure  tungsten  powders  in  order  to  obtain  a  controlled  level  of  interconnected 

porosity  followed  by  infiltration  of  molten  copper  into  the  porous  mass.  The  above  process 

requires  optimisation  of  numerous  parameters  such  as  initial  tungsten  purity/particle  size, 

green  density  of  tungsten  compact,  sintering  temperature,  sintering  time  and  sintered 

density, purity of copper, infiltration temperature, infiltration time and machining parameters 

etc. So, R&D efforts were directed to arrive at the optimised parameters to get defect free W-

Cu  composite.  The  manufacture  process  involves  using  graphite  dies  for  infiltration  and 

refractory  metal  powder  for  packing.  All  other  parameters  were  standardised.  The  process 

achieved pore free composite with good machinability and significantly improved yield. 

The  W-Cu  composite  has  shown  excellent  erosion  resistance  and  has  helped  in 

achieving  consistent  chamber  pressure  for  50  sec  of  firing  duration.  The  typical  room 

temperature mechanical properties of the W-Cu composite are as follows:- 

S No.   Properties 

1 

2 

3 

4 

Density 

Hardness 

Compressive Strength 

Tensile Strength 

Specification 

16.0 ± 1 g/cc 

170 ± 30 VHN 

1000 ± 200 MPa 

600 ± 100 MPa 

Application areas 

The  new  process  is useful in  defence  applications  such  as  jet  vanes,  throat  nozzles 

and throat inserts, which are used as altitude controls in thrusters of various missiles as well 

as the process could be used for civilian applications such as electrical contacts, resistance 

welding contacts, Electricals discharge machining (EDM) electrodes and porous emitters. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
