Hand Held Ground Penetrating Radar (HH-GPR) 

Electronics and Radar Development Establishment (LRDE), a premier lab under DRDO has 

developed  state-of-art  Radar  systems  and  associated  Technologies.  LRDE  is  seeking 

Expression of Interest (EoI) from prospective bidders/recipient for Transfer of Technology in 

the area of Radars.  

Presently,  LRDE  is  ready  for  ToT  for  the  “Hand  Held  Ground  Penetrating  Radar 

(HH-GPR)”. Prospective bidders for EoI are advised to refer the Transfer of Technology link 

on the DRDO website, www.drdo.gov.in for further details/description of the system. 

The terms and conditions to be complied by the bidders for receipt of technology are 

available in the document, “Guidelines for Transfer of Technology” published in the Transfer 

of Technology link on the website, www.drdo.gov.in.  

1.  Description of Technology: 

Handheld  Ground  Penetrating  Radar  (HH-GPR)  System  is  used  in  detection  of  Anti-Tank 

Mines,  Anti-Personnel  Landmines  (metallic  and  non-metallic)  and  Improvised  Explosive 

Devices  (IED)  in  a  variety  of  Indian  soils  such  as  Sand,  Red,  Laterite,  and  Black  Cotton. 

Ground  Estimation,  Clutter  Suppression,  Detection  of  buried  objects  and  Classification, 

Presentation  by  audio  alarm  and/or  visual  display  are  the  key  features  of  the  system. 

Operational environment of GPR are in in-accessible areas such as, jungles and non-motorable 

paths/roads.  Therefore  low  power  consumption  and  light  weight  are  key  parameters  of  the 

system. Ease of operating the system, interpretation of the results in a manner that assists the 

operator  for  evasive/corrective  action  are  the  important  features  of  the  system.  The  system 

provides indication of target/anomaly below the soil by means of an audio signal presented on 

headphone and/or a visual display in 2D.  

 Hand held GPR is configured on a 1.6 meter collapsible wand. Wand 

is adjustable for easy operation by the operator in kneeling and lying 

on the ground positions. Antenna is at the end of the wand that is in 

proximity  to  the  ground.  Electronics  comprising  of  RF  sub  system, 

Signal  Data  and  Image  processing  card  is  housed  in  an  electronic 

box and is fixed at the other end of wand. Human Machine Interface 

and optional Display are mounted on the handle for 2D presentation 

of the target details. This battery operated system is extremely useful 

for quick detection and demining operation for Army and Para-military 

forces respectively in jungle area where very narrow pathways exists. 

Hand Held GPR 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Application Areas: 

The  Radar  has  applications  in  the  area  of  detection  of  buried  objects  such  as  mines, 

explosives or concealed objects in the soil. 

Industries  may  submit  their  company  profile,  financial  &technical              

Interested 
Capabilities  etc.  as  per  the  EOI  terms  (Refer  Appendix-G)  in  ‘Guidelines  for  ToT’ 
document) to Director, LRDE, Bengaluru and copy to Director DI2TM on the following 
addresses within 45 days of this advertisement. 

Director, LRDE 
DRDO, Min. of Defence, 
C V Raman Nagar 
Bengaluru-560093 
Contact No : 080 - 25025415  
                     080 - 25025518 (ToT cell) 
Fax : 080 - 25242916 

Director, DIITM 
Room No 446 DRDO Bhawan 
DRDO HQrs Ministry of Defence 
Rajaji Marg New Delhi – 110011 
Contact No : (011) 23016216 / 23007446 
Fax : (011) 23793008 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
