Expression of Interest 

TOT of Compact Hull Mounted Sonar – ABHAY 

1.Introduction 

(NPOL),  Kochi,  a  Research  and 
Naval  Physical  and  Oceanographic  Laboratory 
DevelopmentLaboratory  under  DRDO,  MoD,  invites  Expression  of  Interest  (EOI)  fromIndian 
manufacturers  having  sufficient  experience,  expertise  and  willingness  to  undertake  the 
production, certification and installationofa compact Hull-Mounted Sonar (ABHAY) designed for 
smaller  warships  of  the  Indian  Navy,  as  Lead  System  Integrator.Thesonar  systemis  to  be 
developed, 
life  cycle 
maintenance support is to be provided.  

installed  onboardNaval  platforms.  Further, 

integrated, 

testedand 

In  this  connection,  EOI  is  invited  from  reputedIndianfirms  having  infrastructure,  trained 
manpower,  adequate  resources  and  sufficient  experience  in  the  area  ofDefence  System 
integration,  Data  acquisition  systems,  Electro-Acoustic  Transducer  Arrays,  Power 
Amplifiers,Embedded Systems etc., with projectmanagement competencyand experience. Firms 
fulfilling the essential requirements, as outlined in Section 2below may submit theEOI. 

2.Essential Requirements for participating in EOI 

The firm submitting their EOI must fulfil the following requirements:- 

(a)  The  firm  should  have  adequate  technical  competence,  infrastructural  requirements, 
qualified  and  experienced  manpower  for  assembly,  integration,  cabling  and  testing  of 
Electro-Acoustic  Transducer  arrays,PCBs  and  cabinets  for  ship  borne  applicationsalong 
with expertise for installation, degutting/regutting of Ship’s hull.  

(b)  The firm should have prior experience and proven track record in specific areas such as 
development, supply, integration and installationof underwater sensor based systems for 
ship  borneapplications.They  also  should  have  expertise  and  experience  in  fabrication  of 
consoles, racks, development of interconnect cable looms for ship bornesystems.  

(c)  The  firm  should  have  adequate  product  development  support  capability  in  terms  of 
qualified human resources, infrastructure, test equipment and test and evaluation tools to 
carry out the integration task. 

(d)  The firm shall have internationally recognized quality management systems and practices, 
such  as  ISO  9001:2008,  AS  9100  or  equivalent.  Necessary  documents  supporting  the 
same shall be attached during submission of EOI. 

(e)  The  firm  shall  have  an  established  state-of-the-art,  in-house  accredited  test  facility  for 
system  integration,  qualification  testing,  and  quality  assurance,  environment  testing, 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
vibration tests, calibration and EMI/EMC etc. In case the firm, itself is not having proven 
record  in  a particular  technology/  test  facility,  it will  be  the  firm’s  responsibility  to  identify 
approved vendors / test centres in the country and carry out fabrication and tests as per 
the  procedures/standards  and  as  per  the  requirements  of  NPOL.  Necessary  documents 
indicating the above shall be attached during submission of EOI.  

Note:  Compliance  to  each  of  the  above  said  requirements  shall  be  substantiated  with 
documentary  proofs.In  spite  of  the  documentary  evidences,  if  found  necessary,  a  Committee 
constituted by Director, NPOL, may visit the firm and ascertain their competence. 

3.System Description.  

ABHAY is an advanced Active cum Passive integrated sonar system designed and developed 
for  the  smaller  platforms  such  as  costal  surveillance/  patrol  vessels.  It  is  primarily  a  compact 
active  sonar  system  with  enhanced  passive  capabilities.  It  employs  advanced  adaptive  signal 
and  information  processing  techniques  for  detection,  tracking  &  classification  of  targets.  The 
hardware architecture is based on the latest technology that enables smooth up-gradation of the 
system capabilities. The system architecture is designed to have feature like scalability, ease-of- 
maintenance & high reliability. 

The  Abhay  sonar  system  consists  of  a  transducer  array,  data  acquisition  system,  power 
amplifier and the dual multi-function console. The brief details of each of the sub systems are 
given below. The configuration of the sonar system is given below. 

(a)  Transducer  Array.  Electro-acoustic  transducers  are  used  to  generate  and  receive 
acoustic  signals.  Transducers  are  arranged  in  vertical  staves  and  32  such  staves  are 
arranged in a cylindrical form. Acoustic height and diameter of array is approximately 800 
mm.  The  PA  needs  to  procure  the  transducer  and  associated  structuresas  per  above 
mentioned specifications from a NPOL nominated OEM/Agency. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b)Front  End  subsystem.  The  Front-end  Subsystem  acquires  the  analogdata  from  the 
transducer  array  which  is  further  amplified  to  the  required  voltage  level  post  conditioning. 
The  amplified  signals  are  thereafterdigitized  and  sent  out  over  Ethernet.  The  Frontend 
system  is  housed  in  a single cabinet  which is internally  partitioned into  three  levels  which 
consists of TX/Rx switch PCBs and DAC hardware.The PAneeds to procure the Front end 
subsystem  as  per  above  mentioned  specifications  and  the  required  PCBs  and  modules 
from NPOL nominated OEMs/Agencies. 

(c)Transmitter Subsystem. The ABHAY transmitter sub system consists of one stand-alone 
cabinet  for  housing  Power  Amplifier  (PA)  modules,  Transmit  Signal  Generator  (TSG),  HT 
Power  supply  units  (HTPSU),  LT  Power  Supply  units  (LTPSU).  The  cabinet  should  be 
EMI/EMC compliant and should support all interconnect wiring and should have necessary 
cooling  arrangements  as  per  specification.  A  resistive  load  box  consisting  of  32  sets  of 
resistive elements, enclosed in a suitable enclosure, with appropriate cooling arrangements 
is  used  to  test  the  Power  Amplifier  cabinet.The  PA  has  to  procure  the  transmitter 
subsystemas  per  above  specification  and  required  boards  from  NPOL  nominated 
OEMs/Agencies. 

(d)Dual  Multi-Function  Console  (DMFC).  DMFC  houses  mainly  signal  processing  and 
display processing subsystem along with provision for data recording. The operator detects 
the target on the display aided by the audio. The data, after post processing, is sent to the 
Display  and  Information  processing  subsystem  for  further  processing  and  presentation  on 
the display.The PA has to procure this DMFC and required boards from NPOL nominated 
OEMs. 

(e)Ring Laser Gyro (RLG). 
The RLG developed by RCI, Hyderabad and manufactured 
by  BEL,  Chennai  is  an  integral  part  of  ABHAY  and  is  utilised  for  obtaining  the  beam 
stabilisation data for the Sonar. The installation of ABHAY also includes procurement of the 
gyro (i.e. RLG) from BEL, Chennai, installation and subsequently, integration with the sonar 
system. 

4.  Responsibilities of System Developer 

(a)  Procurement,  testingand  supplyof  allconsoles  including  PCBs/modulesand  wired  back 
planes,  with  front  panel  connectors  and  their  respective  connectors  and  sonar 
transducers  from  NPOL  nominated  OEM/Agency.(Type,  Quantity  and  part  number  and 
Test  Procedure  will  be  provided  by  NPOL).  All  subsystems  shall  meet  EMI/EMC 
specifications applicable as per JSS standards for ship borne systems. 

(b)  Fabrication of all necessary jigs and fixtures necessary for manufacture, assembly and 

testing of all consoles. 

(c)  Thermal/structural  simulation  of  cabinets 

to  ascertain 

the  cooling/ruggedisation 

requirements of the system 

 
 
 
 
 
 
(d)  Testing and clearing of cabinets in standalone mode and simulation mode both at factory 
premises and onboard with the backplane ensuring the power supply and the individual 
connectivity  between  PCBs  and  the  front  panel  connectors  and  cables  as  per  Test 
Procedure and wire list in presence of NPOL and Naval Reps. 

(e)  Installation, Interconnection and Integration including laying of power cables and system 
interconnecting  cables  between  the  consoles,  junction  box  and  transducer  array  and 
Installation  of  Application  software  and  firmware  (as  provided  by  NPOL)  in  respective 
boards  as  per    procedure  provided  by  NPOL  onboard  Naval  platforms.The  installation 
may also include fitment of a Ring Laser Gyro (RLG) and transducer fixture which will be 
carried  out  while  the  ships  are  in  Dry  Dock.  Installation  of  transducer  array  and 
subsystems may necessitate hotwork and degutting of Shipside. 

(f)  Preparation  of  all  Documents 

Instructions, 
Interconnection  diagrams,  User  manuals,  Installation  and  maintenance    manuals) 
required by NPOL/ Qualification Test / Functional Tests for the Cabinets. 

(Technical  Documents,  Operating 

(g)  Testing,  trouble  shooting  and  replacement  of  respective  boards  during  warranty  and 
beyond  warranty  period  on  mutually  agreed  terms.  The  lead  system  integrator  has  to 
enter into back to back AMCs with respective OEMs accordingly. 

(h)  Each cabinetto be subjected to the Qualification & Certification Procedures as per Navy 
approved  Qualification  Test  Schedule  (QTS).Overall  responsibility  of  total  system 
qualification will be the responsibility of the lead system integrator. 

(j)  Technical Support during STW, HATs and SATsonboard all platforms. 

5. TOT TERMS 

(a)  TOT will be given on non-exclusive basis only. The number of licenses on non-exclusive 
basis will be restricted. However, additional licence if required will be given by DRDO on 
need basis. The intellectual property rights shall always remain with DRDO.   

(b)  The amount and payment stages of TOT fee will be as prescribed by DRDO.  

(c)  Royalty fee @ 2% of the annual sales to Indian Govt. Estt, Armed Forces and @ 6% of 
the  annual  salesto  Export  Market  (based  on  invoice  value  declared  toCustoms 
authorities). 

(d)  Technical assessment of the industries submitting EOI will be carried out by a Technical 
financial 

for  verification  of 

technical  and 

the 

(TAC) 
Assessment  Committee 
capability/capacity of the industry. 

(e)  Eligible  parties  will  have  to  sign  Confidentiality  &  Non-Disclosure  Agreement  (CNDA) 
with DRDO for technical discussion including specifications, following which they shall be 
considered for giving Transfer of Technology (TOT) on non-exclusive basis. 

 
 
 
(f)  TOT  to  industry  will  be  given  based  on  their  manufacturing  capability,  assurance  on 

quality and capacity of production apart from other terms and conditions.  

(g)  The licencing agreement for transfer of technology (LATOT) which is to be signed will be 
as  per  the  template  approved  by  Department  of  Legal  affairs.  Ministry  of  Law  and 
Justice. 

(h)  DRDO shall have the march-in rights to use the IP for its own use in the interest of the 

Govt. of India without any restrictions, irrespective of the nature of licence granted. 

(i)  The  firm  expressing  interest  should  be  technically  sound  to  Procure/manufacture, 
supply,  install,  Integrate  and  maintain  the  system  with  requisite  quality  standards. 
Domain  knowledge  in  installation,  integration  and  maintenance  of  sensor  systems 
onboard naval ships is considered to be essential for satisfactory completion of system 
commissioning and sea trials. 

6.  Submission of EOI 

Interested industries may write along with their company profile, financial & technical capabilities 
etc.  as  per  the  following  format    to  Director,  NPOL,  Kochi  and  copy  to  Director  DIITM  on  the 
following addresses within 45 days of this advertisement. 

Director, NPOL 
DRDO, Min. of Defence,  
Thrikkakara P.O. 
Kochi-682021 
Contact No - 0484 2424878 
FAX : 0484-2424858 
Email: director@npol.drdo.in 

Director, DIITM  
Room No 446 DRDO Bhawan 
DRDO HQrs Ministry of Defence 
RajajiMarg New Delhi – 110011  
Contact No - (011) 23016216 / 23007446 
FAX No. 011-23793008 

The following documents are to be submitted along with EOI: 

a)  Memorandum  and  Articles  of  Association  (Should  be  incorporated  as  per  Indian 

Companies Act, 1956)  

b)  Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.  

c)  Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.  

d)  Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period  

e)  Details  of  shareholding/ownership  pattern  especially  foreign  partners/  shareholders, 
foreign  employees,  directors,  etc.  The  company  must  adhere  to  the  prevailing  Govt.  of 
India  policies  and  regulations  on  Foreign  Direct  Investment  (FDI)/DIPP  norms  as 
applicable.  

 
 
 
 
 
f)  Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  

g)  Numbers and details of IPR or patents etc. held by the company.  

h)  Number of technically / professionally qualified personnel. 

i)  Record  of  past  performance  (e.g.  Supply  orders  executed  against  Ministry  of  Defence 

orders, public sectors and paramilitary forces, if any).  

j)  Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their production capacities) 

and technical expertise.  

k)  List of Testing and Support equipment. 

l) 

ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification  

m)  Relevant clearances from the authorities/ ministries (if any) 

n)  Capacity and capability to undertake large scale integration work of similar nature and to 

accept attendant financial and commercial risks. 

o)  Capacity/capability to market the product through marketing network, sales and service 

network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 

 
