HOLOGRAPHIC SIGHT 

INTRODUCTION 

The holographic sight is an aiming device where a projected holographic reticle is used for fast 

and  accurate  aiming.  It  is  a  unit  magnification  sight  with  large  (practically  unlimited)  field  of  view, 

because of shooting with both eyes open. When a holographic sight is mounted on a weapon (a rifle or 

carbine), it offers an advantage of quick engagement with the weapon.  

The viewing window of this sight is a combiner for see-through target image and a projected reticle 

recorded.  

IRDE  has  designed  and  developed  holographic  sight  for  INSAS  rifle  based  on  the  army 

requirement.  

SPECIFICATIONS 

FEATURES 

•  Weight 
•  Range  
•  Magnification  
•  Window size   
•  Field of View  
     (Because of both eyes open shooting) 

- < 350 gm  
- up to 200 mt 
- 1X 
- 30 mm x 25 mm 
- Practically unlimited  

•  Reticle pattern embedded in display window 
•  Brightness Control of reticle 
•  Low Battery indicator 
•  Auto shutdown 
•  Night Vision Compatible 
•  Powered by two 1.5 V AAA cells 

TECHNOLOGIES INVOLVED 

The  development  of  indigenous  holographic  sight  involves  the  development  of  following 

technologies – 

1.  Recording and reconstruction of Reticle Hologram - It involves the preparation of high 
resolution  reticle  masks,  novel  recording  schemes,  suitable  recording  material  and  their 
processing optimization.  

2.  Recording and reconstruction of Holographic Lens - This holographic lens replaces the 

conventional collimator and a compensation grating and makes the device compact. 

3.  Sealing of holographic components for their environmental stability - This is essential 

for maintaining their performance in extreme conditions on operation. 

4.  Power  variation  of  laser–  This  electronics  is  used  to  provide  the  desired  features  like 

brightness control, auto shutdown and low battery indicator in the device.  

5.  Mechanical  design  of  holographic  Sight  –  This  is  for  delivering  a  rugged  structure  to 
sustain  recoil  of  gun  with  all  desired  functional  requirements  like  reticle  movement  in 
horizontal and vertical direction, female dovetail for fitment of sight on the weapon. 

All the above technologies successfully developed at IRDE (DRDO) Dehradun. 

Interested industry may write to Director, IRDE, Dehradun on the following address –  

1.  Director, IRDE  

DRDO, Min. of Defence,  
Raipur PO 
Dehradun – 248008 
Fax: 0135-2787161/ 2787128  

2. Director, DIITM,DRDO HQ,  
    Min. of Defence, DRDO Bhawan,  
    Room No. 447, B Block, 
    Rajaji Marg, New Delhi - 110011  
    Fax: 011-23793008 

3.  Ms. Lata Mainali, Jt. Director (Technology) 
     Phone : 0135-2782273  

 
 
 
 
 
 
              
          
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
