Expression of Interest (EOI) for Transfer of Technology (TOT) of 

Fast Setting and High Strength Polymer Concrete Composites (PolyCC) 

Introduction:  

Defence  Laboratory,  Jodhpur  has  developed  Fast  Setting  and  High  Strength  Polymer 
Concrete  Composites  (PolyCC)  based  on  two  types  of  resin  systems  mainly  for  rapid 
repair  of  runways,  helipads  and  bunkers.  PolyCC  can  be  useful  for  other  wartime 
rehabilitation requirements viz. fast construction / repair of missile launching pads, Class 
‘A’ roads, Test Beds and anchoring of different military structures. Other civil applications 
include  fast  repair  and  construction  of  express  highways,  bridges,  underground 
structures, industrial floors, pipes, panel slabs and foundation.  

The following resin systems have been developed by Defence Laboratory, Jodhpur: 

(i)  High  temperature  resin  system  is  suitable  for  preparation  of  PolyCC  at  ambient 

temperatures ranging from 10°C to 50°C. 

(ii)  Low  temperature  resin  system  is  suitable  for  preparation  of  PolyCC  at  ambient 

temperatures ranging from –20°C to 10°C. 

PolyCC can be manoeuvred to achieve very high compressive strengths >400kg/cm2 and 
flexural strength >90 kg/cm2 within two hours of curing as compared to that achieved by 
cement concrete in 28 days. Besides fast setting and high strength, they possess additional 
characteristics, viz., excellent adhesion, water tightness, surface smoothness and resistant 
to chemical, heat, abrasion and fatigue.  

Preparation:  

PolyCC  can  be  prepared  by  mixing  the  respective  resin  system  as  binder  with  locally 
available  gravel/aggregates  as  filler  in  the  presence  of  initiator  and  accelerator.  After 
polymerisation, a three-dimensional polymeric network is formed which is responsible for 
the high strength of PolyCC.  

Advantages of PolyCC Technology: 

  Innovative technology requires no water at all. 

  PolyCC can be prepared using locally available fillers & Aggregates.  

  Workable at hot as well as sub-zero temperature conditions.  

  High compressive strength  (> 400 kg/cm2)  

 
