HIGH CAPACITY LITHIUM ION BATTERY TECHNOLOGY (HCLBT) MK-II 

EXPRESSION OF INTEREST 

 FOR 

Naval   Science   and  Technological  Laboratory  (NSTL),  Visakhapatnam,   a  Research   &
Development   Laboratory   under   DRDO,   MoD   has   developed   High   Power   Li-ion   Battery
Technologyb   (HPLBT),   awarded   ToT   to   interested   manufacturers   under   Category   ‘A’   and
handed   over   the   know-how  of   various   technologies   related   to   the  development.  Due   to   the
incessant R&D efforts, NSTL has now indigenously developed technology for 1C rated 200 Ah
Li-ion cell in prismatic configuration. High capacity cells of the order of 200 Ah capacity which
are suitable for defence applications are not commercially available. With the existing pilot plant
facility at NSTL, fabrication of proto type Li-ion cells of 200Ah capacity is carried out and the
cells are tested and evaluated.

It is proposed to transfer  the  “High Capacity Li-ion Battery Technology (HCLBT)
MK-II”  (1 C rated 200 Ah ) under category-A through Transfer of Technology as per DRDO
guidelines   by   inviting   Expression   of   Interest   (EoI)   from   interested   manufacturing   industrial
partners as per DRDO guidelines. In this ToT,  HPLBT will be the base technology   which is
augmented by the newly developed HCLBT. NSTL will provide the relevant “know-how” on
high capacity Li-ion battery technology along with the base technology of Li-ion cells.   Indian
industries having sufficient  experience, expertise and willingness to absorb the technology  to
undertake productionisation of Lithium  ion (Li-ion) battery systems based on the  technology
developed by NSTL, Visakhapatnam  can submit Expression of Interest (EOI). 

Submission of EOI
Interested   industries   may   write   along   with   their   company   profile,   financial   &   technical
capabilities   etc   to   Director,   NSTL,   Visakhapatnam   and   copy   to   Director,   DIITM   on   the
following addresses.

Director, NSTL
DRDO, Min. of Defence,
Vigyan Nagar
Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh - 530027
FAX :0891 - 2559464
Email: director[at]nstl[dot]drdo[dot]in 

Director, DIITM
Room No 446,  DRDO Bhawan
DRDO HQrs,  Ministry of Defence
Rajaji Marg,  New Delhi – 110011
FAX No. 011-23793008.
Email : tot[dot]hqr[at]gov[dot]in
           diitm[dot]hqr[at]gov[dot]in

 
 
 
                   
