Coastal Surveillance Radar 

1.0 Description of Technology 

The Costal Surveillance Radar is the primary sensor for Integrated Costal Surveillance System 

(ICSS).  It is capable of detecting sub 20 meter boats such as county boats, dinghies and fishing 

vessels  in  heavy  sea  clutter  environment  in  all  weather  conditions.  The  radar  is  capable  of 

operating  24x7.  It  has  networking  facility  to  operate  either  remotely  or  locally.  Primarily,  radar 

operates  in  X  band  and  resorted  to  S  band  during  inclement  weather.  The  radar  is  designed 

according to IALA specifications with instrumented range of 50 Km. The radar detection range 

for small county boats (RCS 1sqm) are up to 20 km.  Radar has been successfully evaluated as 

a part of “Proof-of-Concept” trials of ICSS and recommended for transfer-of-technology (ToT).   

It is a modern generation of coastal surveillance radar with high duty 

solid state power amplifier (SSPA), sophisticated signal processing and 

sea  clutter mitigation techniques.  High resolution,  both  in  azimuth  and 

range, enables the radar to track dense fishing vessels in the vicinity of 

coastal  area.  Further,  the  radar  has  advanced  tracking  algorithms  to 

track  up  to  1500  sea  surface  targets.  The  track  information  can  be 

transmitted over IP network to control stations.  

The  radar  is  configured  as  a  modular  design;  so  that  it  can  put  on 

tower,  existing  light  house  or  any  suitable  structure.  The  major  sub-

systems  of  the  radar  are  Dual  band  antenna,  Pedestal,  Transceiver 

CSR during PoC Trails 

rack 

(SSPA,  Exciter,  Receiver,  and  Signal  Processor),  Radar 

Controller, Data Processor, and Display server. 

2.0 Current Status  

Four  CSRs  have  been  developed  as  a  part  of  ICSS  program.  The 

indigenous  CSR  met 

the  operational  requirement  as  per 

IALA 

recommendations. Currently, three radars are in operation at Balasore 

area  which  will  be  integrated  with  Coastal  Surveillance  Network  of 

Indian Coast Guard (ICG). Towards the production of indigenous CSR, 

the  Cost  Estimation  Committee  (CEC)  has  recommended  for  two 

licenses (non-exclusive) for ToT as per DRDO guidelines. 

CSR installed in 
East Coast 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.0 Potential users 

(a)The Indian Coast Guard (ICG) for coastal security 

(b) Indian Navy for surface target surveillance   

(c) Director General of Light Houses and Light Ships (DGLL) 

(d) Ministry of Shipping for National Coastal Vessel Traffic Services (NCVTS)  

(e) Vessel Traffic Services (VTS) of public/private ports/facilities 

4.0 Application Areas 

The  primary  aim  of  CSR  design  is  to  detect  and  track  small  fishing  vessels  for  Coastal 

surveillance  application.  However,  the  radar  can  also  be  directly  used  for  VTS  (Vessel  Traffic 

management Services) application, harbor surveillance and navigational purposes. By mounting 

on ship, it can also be tuned to the role of Sea  Surface  Target  Surveillance  Radar. It can be 

used for  Airport  Surface  Target  Surveillance  as it is solid state coherent radar with Doppler 

processing. 

 
