High Power and High Energy Li-ion Battery Technology (HPHELBT) 

1. Introduction: 

Naval  Science  and  Technological  Laboratory  (NSTL),  Visakhapatnam,  a  Research  & 
Development Laboratory under DRDO, MoD has developed High Power and High Energy Li-ion 
Battery Technology and holds the know-how of various technologies related to the development. 
NSTL,  Visakhapatnam 
Indian 
manufacturers  who  have  willingness  to  absorb  the  technology  and  undertake  production  of 
Lithium  ion  (Li-ion)  battery  systems  based  on  High  Power  and  High  Energy  Li-ion  Battery 
Technology (HPHELBT)  for Civilian Applications developed at NSTL, Visakhapatnam. 

Interest  (EOI)  from  enthusiastic 

invites  Expression  of 

2. System Description: 

While  the  term  ‘‘Li-ion  battery’’  is  often  used,  it  consists  of  Li-ion  cells  and  Battery 
Managements System (BMS). The ‘‘cell’’ is the basic electrochemical unit providing a source of 
electrical  energy  by  direct  conversion  of  chemical  energy  and  consists  of  an  assembly  of 
cathodes,  anodes,    separators,  electrolyte,  container  and  terminals.      BMS  is  the  electronic 
monitoring and controlling system to maintain the performance of the Li-ion cells.   

Know-how of the high power and high energy Li-ion battery technology is established by 
NSTL indigenously. The high power and high energy Li-ion cells in prismatic configuration are 
not  readily  available  commercially.  Synthesis  procedures  for  high  power  and  high  energy 
cathode materials are established in-house. All processes are optimized for high power and high 
energy Li-ion cell fabrication in both pouch and prismatic configurations. Li-ion cells of 60 Ah 
capacity  are  fabricated,  tested  and  evaluated.  To  confirm  their  safe  operation  in  civilian 
applications, environmental and abuse tests are carried out.  

3. Salient features of the HPHELBT are as follows: 

a.  Design of compositions and Liquid to Solid ratios for fabrication of Li-ion cells 

b.  Optimized procedures for fabrication of Li-ion pouch and prismatic cells 

c.  Optimized procedures for electrochemical characterization of the fabricated cells. 

d.  Synthesis of carbon coated LFP cathode material & variants for flat operating voltage. 

e.  Synthesis of LMO cathode material & variants (LNMO) for high voltage operation.  

f.  Fabrication of Li-ion cells in pouch and prismatic configuration based upon the above 

cathodes and MCMB anode. 

g.  Drawings of components of cells  

h.  Design documents and ATPs 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
